"[Front cover]," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1-2.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7912588
Abstract: Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7912588&isnumber=7912587

"Power electronics and energy conversion," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 3-3.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7912589
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7912589&isnumber=7912587

N. Femia, "A cost-effective technique for dynamic testing of DC-DC power supplies," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 6-11.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7912590
Abstract: This paper discusses a cost-effective technique for dynamic testing of DC-DC power supplies, based on the injection of a signal into the feedback loop of a DC-DC regulator, which makes it operating as a dynamic source or a dynamic load. The theoretical background and the practical implementation of the technique are investigated. Guidelines are provided to determine the static set-up and the bandwidth of DC-DC regulators operating in dynamic source and dynamic load modes. Examples of experimental line and load transient tests of switching and linear DC-DC power supplies are realized by means of the Texas Instruments PMLK Series BUCK, BOOST and LDO boards.
keywords: {Regulators;Voltage control;Resistance;Bandwidth;Power supplies;Mathematical model;Switches;DC-DC power supplies;dynamic testing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7912590&isnumber=7912587

S. Esmaeili, A. Siadatan, A. Z. Jahromi and P. Shirazi, "A filterless single-phase AC-AC converter based on coupled inductors with safe-commutation strategy and continuous input current," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 12-17.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7912591
Abstract: A novel single phase ac-ac converter with no LC input/output filters is presented in this paper. The proposed converter has all the advantages of the previous single phase impedance source ac-ac converters; it can operate in buck/boost and in-phase/out-of phase with the input voltage, that makes it appropriate for voltage sags/swells compensator without any dc storage. A coupled transformer based on T-structure is utilized to give an opportunity to access desired output voltage with various duty cycles. In this topology snubber circuit is not required, because a safe commutation strategy enables to eliminate voltage and current spikes produced by short-circuit path. In addition, the converter performs in continuous current mode, so there is no inrush current. Also, the characteristic which the output voltage reverses or maintains phase angle with the input voltage is supported well, because the input and output share the same ground. Eventually, circuit analysis, operating principles and simulation results in MATLAB/SIMULINK are presented to verify the performance of the converter.
keywords: {AC-AC converters;Topology;Inductors;Switches;Capacitors;Network topology;Voltage fluctuations;Continuous input current;T-source;safe commutaion strategy;ground sharing;dynamic voltage restorer (DVR)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7912591&isnumber=7912587

M. Sharifzadeh, H. Vahedi, C. Cecati, C. Buccella and K. Al-Haddad, "A generalized formulation of SHM-PAM for cascaded H-bridge inverters with non-equal DC sources," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 18-23.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7912592
Abstract: In this paper a generalized formulation for Selective Harmonic Mitigation Pulse Amplitude Modulation (SHM-PAM) has been presented to control Cascaded H-bridge (CHB) inverter with non-equal DC sources. Consistent with the proposed SHM-PAM technique, switching angles are attained constant while the calculated magnitudes of DC sources vary linearly for all modulation indexes (ma). In fact, in the SHM-PAM, the pulse width of the output staircase voltage waveform is remained constant while the pulse amplitude is changed with respect to ma. Moreover, the new general formula simplifies and reduces calculations of the conventional SHM's nonlinear equations through omitting ma. Furthermore, in order to calculate angles and magnitude of DC voltage, it is enough that the equations in the SHM-PAM being solved only for one time. The SHM-PAM calculations are carried out for the 5, 7, 9 and 11-level low switching frequency voltage waveforms. Simulation results of a 5 level CHB inverter verify the practicability of the proposed modulation technique to mitigate the desired harmonics of the output voltage waveform.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Inverters;Mathematical model;Switches;Switching frequency;Amplitude modulation;Cascaded H-Bridge inverter;Selective Harmonic Mitigation Pulse Amplitude Modulation (SHM-PAM);non-equal separated DC sources;multilevel inverter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7912592&isnumber=7912587

K. L. Bashar, S. Islam, M. A. Choudhury, A. H. Abedin and M. N. Uddin, "A modular one-switch three-phase Single Ended Primary Inductor (SEPIC) rectifier," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 24-29.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913053
Abstract: An input switch based modular Single Ended Primary Inductor (SEPIC) three phase AC-DC converter is proposed in this paper. The proposed rectifier has the advantage of step-up/down voltage gain with boost input stage. Input boost stage allows input current shaping accompanied by power factor correction. The topology will also provide possible capacitive isolation of input/output sides of the converter. The rectifier has minimum number of controlled switch, less number of diodes, fewer controller components and driver, isolators, sensors and heat sinks than other input switched three phase rectifiers. As a result, the proposed rectifier will be easy to operate, maintain, reliable in operation, light weight, compact and cost effective. The proposed three phase SEPIC rectifier is presented in this paper with its typical simulation and prototype's experimental results.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Switches;Switching circuits;Voltage control;Reactive power;Integrated circuit modeling;Vienna rectifiers;modular three phase rectifiers;three phase SEPIC rectifiers;input current shaping;power factor correction (pfc)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913053&isnumber=7912587

J. Lv, C. Gao, X. Liu and S. Chen, "A novel DVR based on parallel-connected diode-clamped modular multilevel converters," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 30-35.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913054
Abstract: The dynamic voltage restorer (DVR) is a fast and efficient solution to voltage sag problems. This paper proposes a new configuration of DVR which is based on the parallel diode-clamped modular multilevel converter (parallel-DCM2C). In the parallel-DCM2C topology the capacitor voltages distributed in the sub-modules (SMs) can be balanced automatically without any balancing control algorithms. Additionally no SM capacitor voltage sensors are required. In this paper the compensation strategy is also developed with the new configuration. Experimental results verified the voltage self-balancing performance and compensation functionality of this novel DVR.
keywords: {Capacitors;Power quality;Clamps;Voltage control;Power harmonic filters;Topology;Inductors;Dynamic voltage restorer (DVR);voltage sag;modular multilevel converter (M2C);parallel-DCM2C;voltage balancing control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913054&isnumber=7912587

S. -P. Yang, S. -J. Chen, C. -M. Huang and B. -K. Chiou, "A novel series input parallel output soft-switching high step-down converter: Analysis and implementation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 36-41.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913055
Abstract: A novel series input parallel output soft-switching high step-down converter (SIPOSS-HSD) converter is proposed in this paper. The converter consists of two asymmetrical half-bridge high step-down (AHB-HSD) dc-dc converter cells in series input and parallel output connection to share the input voltage and output current. All switches of the proposed SIPOSS-HSD converter can be turned on under zero-voltage switching (ZVS) condition. It reveals that the proposed converter suitable for high input voltage, high output current and high efficiency applications. Moreover, the operating principle of the proposed converter is presented to ensure the all the features of the proposed can be achieved. Finally, a switching frequency 100 kHz and output power 150~750 W prototype of proposed converter is implemented. The theoretical analysis is thus verified by experimental results. It shows that the proposed SIPOSS-HSDC has the highest efficiency of 90.7 %.
keywords: {Inductors;Video recording;Zero voltage switching;Switches;Stress;Capacitors;Low voltage;series input parallel output (SIPO);soft-switching (SS);high step-down (HSD);zero-voltage switching (ZVS)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913055&isnumber=7912587

F. Chen, Y. Huangfu, S. Zhuo, L. Xu and D. Zhao, "Analysis and control of a high voltage ratio and low stress DC-DC converter for fuel cell applications," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 42-47.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913056
Abstract: The fuel cell systems are considered as current intensive sources with low output voltage, so power electronic converters are essential part of fuel cell applications. A dc/dc converter with high voltage ratio and low stress is developed in this paper. The inductors of the output series interleaved boost converter (OS-IBC) are interleaved in parallel at input which can reduce the input current ripple. Besides, the structure of output series can provide a high voltage ratio. A small signal ac model and the corresponding transfer function of the OS-IBC is derived as well as controller design is carried out in this paper. A series of simulation and experimental results validate the small signal ac model and the controller of the OS-IBC.
keywords: {Inductors;Fuel cells;Capacitors;Switches;Stress;Automatic voltage control;interleaved boost converter;high voltage ratio;small signal ac model;controller design},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913056&isnumber=7912587

T. N. Nguyen and H. F. Blanchette, "Application of Y-cap on noise attenuation in low power part of power converter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 48-53.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913057
Abstract: The high frequency voltage oscillation on the DC/DC gate driver of a H-bridge created during the turn-off intervals of the power switches has critical impact on component reliability and control quality. This noise can propagate freely in the low power plane to other functional circuits of the converter due to the performance degradation of EMI filter in high frequency range above 30MHz. In this paper, the origin of the high frequency voltage oscillation is analyzed and a new way of utilizing Y-cap is proposed to reduce this voltage oscillation before it propagates in the low power plane. The key idea is to provide a current return path with low impedance at the oscillation frequency from the input of DC/DC gate driver to the switches. Therefore, the high frequency voltage drop on DC/DC gate driver is attenuated. The proposed approach is practically effective to improve noise performance of a converter at the final stage design and maintenance phase with minimum efforts of calculation and measurement. To support the analysis, the experiments with a Buck converter with a typical H-bridge driver circuit are performed. Several combinations of Y-caps are used to prove the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Logic gates;Oscillators;Electromagnetic interference;Power supplies;Inductance;Impedance;Switches;modeling;Y-cap;noise;electromagnetic interference;power plane},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913057&isnumber=7912587

K. Gunawardane, S. Xie and N. Kularatna, "Back-to-back MOSFET switches to reduce the losses in SCALDO implementation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 54-59.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913058
Abstract: In today's portable devices, major DC-DC topologies are mixed and matched to provide multiple DC rails to power point of load (POL) rails. The traditional high frequency DC converter approaches to achieve high efficiency have their strengths and draw backs, and none of them could be considered ideal solution to energy efficiency and battery run time issues of modern portable devices. Supercapacitor assisted low dropout regulators (SCALDO) is a novel linear regulator topology developed by combining an array of supercapacitors, an LDO and a very low frequency switching arrangement to achieve high efficiency in linear converter comparable with high frequency switching converters. The technique implemented in commonly used DC-DC converter stages such as 12-5V, 5-3.3 V and 5-1.2 V with efficiency improvement factors of 2, 1.33 and 3 respectively, with the example of increasing the 42% efficiency of a 12-5 V linear converter to 84% theoretically. In these early prototype versions, solid state relays were used as the low frequency switches to eliminate the unnecessary discharging of the supercapacitors (SC), however, high on resistance in these switches increase the switch losses. This paper provides the details of a new design technique to eliminate this SC discharge issue and to further reduce the switch losses by using back-to-back MOSFET switches, together with performance details of 12-5 V practical converter.
keywords: {Decision support systems;Efficiency;DC-DC convertres;Supercapcitors;SCALDO},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913058&isnumber=7912587

R. Lizana, M. Perez, A. Dekka and B. Wu, "Capacitor voltage balancing method for modular multilevel converter with flying capacitor submodules," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 60-65.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913059
Abstract: The modular multilevel converter (MMC) is most widely acclaimed converter topology for high-voltage, high-power applications. Several multilevel submodules have been proposed to replace the conventional two-level submodules for MMC, allowing the reduction in the foot-print size of the converter for the same number of output voltage levels. Among them, the three-level flying capacitor (3L-FC) submodule generates smaller circulating currents and voltage ripple at any operating condition. For stable and reliable operation of the MMC, it is necessary to equally distribute the total arm energy among the submodules. In addition, the flying capacitors voltage in each submodule must be controlled at their reference value to generate the three-level output voltage waveform. To achieve the aforementioned control objectives, a simple voltage balancing approach is proposed in this paper. The implementation of the algorithm involves simple logical functions and easy to extend for MMC with large number of submodules per arm. The simulation and experimental studies are conducted on a 3L-FC based MMC to validate the superiority of the proposed approach.
keywords: {Capacitors;Voltage control;Modulation;Switches;Modular multilevel converters;Indexes;Topology},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913059&isnumber=7912587

D. Ronanki, P. H. Sang, V. Sood and S. S. Williamson, "Comparative assessment of three-phase transformerless grid-connected solar inverters," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 66-71.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913060
Abstract: Solar energy is a promising alternative energy source for a sustainable pollution-free future. Due to the requirements of high efficiency, reliability, power density and low cost, transformerless PV inverters can be utilized in a grid-connected solar energy system. However, this suffers from no galvanic isolation and leakage currents through the stray capacitances between the PV array and the ground which results in some degradation of the system's performance as well as safety issues. This paper performs a comprehensive review and comparison of the performance of different 3-phase inverter topologies combined with different pulse width modulation (PWM) schemes in transformerless PV systems. Moreover, a modified discontinuous PWM technique was proposed for an H8 inverter to reduce leakage currents in this paper. The analysis was carried out for 50 kW PV inverters. The key performance of each inverter topology such as common mode voltages (CMVs), leakage currents, current harmonics and efficiency are holistically evaluated by using simulation results. Also, the merits and demerits of each system are highlighted.
keywords: {Inverters;Leakage currents;Pulse width modulation;Switches;Topology;Capacitance},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913060&isnumber=7912587

K. Pai, Z. Hong and Z. Li, "Design and implementation of feedback controllers for a power converter based on a three-terminal switch mode," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 72-77.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913061
Abstract: In this study, the feedback controllers for a power converter were designed and implemented to fulfill the constant-voltage (CV) and constant-current (CC) output modes. The topology used by the DC-DC converter was a phase-shifted full-bridge with a parallel current-doubler rectification converter (PSFB-PCDRC). In order to design the feedback controllers for the PSFB-PCDRC CV and CC operations, the PSFB-PCDRC small-signal model was established and employed to analyze frequency responses. Moreover, the three-terminal switch model and state-space representation were used, therefore, the PSFB-PCDRC transfer function was available to be acquired for the Bode plot simulation and analyzing. According to a small-signal instrument measurements, the derived small-signal model and loop compensative parameters could be approved. Simulations and measurements corresponded to the anticipated results of theory, demonstrating the validity of proposed design.
keywords: {Adaptive control;Load modeling;Voltage control;Transfer functions;Switches;Analytical models;Capacitance;feedback controller;constant-current;constant-voltage;small-signal model;three-terminal switch model},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913061&isnumber=7912587

A. H. Abedin, M. N. Uddin, S. Islam, M. A. Choudhury and K. L. Bashar, "Diode-bridge enclosed one switch three-phase power factor corrected (PFC) Ĉuk rectifier," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 78-83.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913062
Abstract: A new one-switch three phase power factor corrected (PFC) rectifier is presented in this paper. The proposed 3-phase ac-dc converter is based on Ĉuk topology. Proper feedback control of the circuit can maintain high power factor and low input current total harmonic distortion (THD). Use of minimum number of control switch in the proposed power conversion circuit reduces components, drivers drive isolation circuits, associated sensors and control circuits. The operation of the circuit is described by simulation and experimental results. The proposed 3-phase Ĉuk topology based rectifier is reliable in terms of operation, maintenance, control and efficiency of conversion. Boost input stage of the proposed circuit makes the circuit capable of being controlled like a single-phase boost PFC rectifier. Due to Ĉuk topology based power conversion the converter provides boost-buck ideal input/output voltage gain relationship.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Switches;Switching circuits;Voltage control;Reactive power;Power factor correction;3-phase pfc rectifiers;Vienna rectifiers;three phase Ĉuk rectifiers;input current shaping;power factor correction (pfc);THD of rectifier input current},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913062&isnumber=7912587

H. Makhamreh and O. Kukrer, "Discrete time sliding mode control of single phase LCL grid-inverter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 84-88.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913063
Abstract: Current control method for single phase LCL grid connected inverters is presented. The controller is designed as a combination of feed-forward and sliding mode control. While feed-forward will play the main role in the steady state, the sliding mode controller will be active in case of parameters uncertainties and/or disturbances. The pulsed nature of the pulse width modulator is taken into account in calculations. Simulation using Matlab demonstrates the robustness of the controller against parameter uncertainties and disturbances, in addition to fast response performance.
keywords: {Inverters;Mathematical model;Voltage control;Sliding mode control;Pulse width modulation;Steady-state;Grid connected inverter;discrete sliding mode;chattering phenomena},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913063&isnumber=7912587

A. Shoihet, V. Berdichevsky, M. Shvartsas and R. Rabinovici, "Experimental stability analysis of an electromagnetic levitation melting system fed by a series resonant converter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 89-94.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913064
Abstract: In a stability analysis of a levitation-melting system fed by a series resonant converter, it was found that a response delay of the current envelope signal in the coil to changes in the position of a levitating specimen has an impact on the system stability. Simulation results validate the developed analytical model. Experimental results from a 1-kW converter are presented to validate the analysis and the simulation results.
keywords: {Decision support systems;Amplitude modulation;eddy currents;electromagnetic forces;induction heating;levitation;power conversion;resonant;stability analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913064&isnumber=7912587

D. Shrestha, U. Tamrakar, Z. Ni and R. Tonkoski, "Experimental verification of virtual inertia in diesel generator based microgrids," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 95-100.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913065
Abstract: The dynamic frequency stability issues in microgrids with large penetration of low inertia and intermittent photovoltaic (PV) systems can be improved by using virtual inertia (VI). A VI is the combination of energy storage system, power electronics converter and a proper control algorithm. This paper presents design and experimental verification of the VI in a PV-diesel generator based remote microgrid system. Firstly, the VI was designed and tested in simulation using MATLAB/Simulink. Later, a hardware prototype of 1 kW inverter for the VI was designed and tested with a 13 kW diesel generator test system. The VI unit was able to reduce the frequency variations from a minimum value of 57.39 Hz to 58.03 Hz for a step change in the system load. The frequency deviations can be further reduced with a larger VI unit or multiple VI units in a real microgrid scenario.
keywords: {Microgrids;Generators;Inverters;Frequency control;Frequency measurement;Power system stability;Transfer functions;Diesel generator;frequency stability;inverter;microgrid;photovoltaic system and virtual inertia},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913065&isnumber=7912587

I. Mosgren, H. Nademi and L. Norum, "Exploring a modulation strategy by experiments for modular multilevel converter in faulty operation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 101-106.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913066
Abstract: Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC) technology is rapidly evolving, and research is ongoing to make the MMC suitable for more applications. This topology comprises multiple Sub-Modules (SM) to form the output voltage levels with lower order harmonic contributions. In this paper, a reconfiguration control method for continuous operation during bypassed faulty SM is presented. The method accomplish to keep the same line-to-line voltage as in steady-state condition without deterioration of modulation index. A level-shifted modulation scheme and capacitor voltage balancing algorithm for a 6-level MMC converter are simulated and experimentally validated through Hardware-In-the-Loop (HIL) platform.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Voltage measurement;Circuit faults;Capacitors;Fault tolerance;Fault tolerant systems;Modulation;Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC);Fault tolerant control (FTC);Pulse-width modulation (PWM);Hardware-In-the-Loop (HIL) simulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913066&isnumber=7912587

T. N. Nguyen, H. F. Blanchette and R. Wang, "General impedance representation of passive devices based on measurement," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 107-112.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913067
Abstract: The impedance modeling of passive device is mandatory for EMI prediction of power converter on printed board circuit (PCB) level. The black-box node-to-node impedance function (NIF) model, which extracts the connecting impedance matrix from measurement, can be used as the most general representation. However, the most recent development of this model is still based on the assumption of ideal shorting path used in measurement, which is not true since its small inductance results in high impedance in EMI frequency. It interacts with small inductive and high capacitive impedance of popular passive devices used in the power converter, i.e. common choke, LC filter, power supply, resulting in computational errors of the connecting impedance matrix. In this paper, the errors in the model created by shorting path impedance is analyzed and eliminated by employing the Newton-Raphson (NR) iterative method. This work helps to improve the precision of the model, herein called general impedance representation (GIR); and hence, enables it to be applied for all kinds of passive devices without knowledge of the device's specific model. The experimental results are presented to confirm the effectiveness of the proposed GIR.
keywords: {Impedance;Joining processes;Impedance measurement;Pins;Mathematical model;Admittance;Computational modeling;modeling;common choke;equivalent circuit model;noise;electromagnetic interference},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913067&isnumber=7912587

P. Sobanski and T. Orlowska-Kowalska, "IGBT open-circuit fault diagnosis based on the current prediction in the line-side AC/DC converter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 113-118.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913068
Abstract: In this paper the transistor open-circuit fault diagnostic technique that is based on the grid current prediction in the voltage oriented controlled three-phase two-level rectifier was discussed. For the current one-step prediction, the rectifier's dynamics equation was discretized using the Euler's method. The proposed technique allows to detect single and multiple transistor faults under the rectifying as well as regenerating mode of the converter in a time shorter than one current fundamental period. The technique has been validated using an experimental setup.
keywords: {Transistors;Rectifiers;Voltage measurement;Voltage control;Circuit faults;Current measurement;Reactive power;active rectifier;predictive algorithm;condition monitoring;open-circuit fault;fault-tolerant control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913068&isnumber=7912587

S. Chen, S. Yang, C. Huang and C. Lin, "Interleaved high step-up DC-DC converter with parallel-input series-output configuration and voltage multiplier module," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 119-124.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913069
Abstract: An interleaved high step-up dc-dc converter is proposed for high voltage gain and high efficiency applications. The configuration is composed of modified two-phase interleaved boost converter with parallel-input series-output connection and a voltage multiplier module stacking on the output side. In the proposed converter, the parallel-input connection is used to share the input current and to reduce the conduction losses, while the series-output connection and voltage multiplier module are employed to obtain the high voltage gain without operating at extreme duty ratio. In addition, the input current ripple is reduced due to the interleaved operation. The voltage stresses on the power switches are greatly lower than the output voltage such that the low-voltage-rated MOSFETs with low conduction resistor are available to reduce the conduction losses and to improve the conversion efficiency. Meanwhile, the output diode reverse-recovery problem is alleviated by the leakage inductance of the coupled inductors. Finally, the experimental results from a 1-kW prototype are provided to validate the effectiveness of the proposed converter.
keywords: {Inductors;DC-DC power converters;Stress;Switches;Inductance;Renewable energy sources;Capacitors;high step-up dc-dc converter;interleaved operation;voltage multiplier module;reverse-recovery problem},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913069&isnumber=7912587

H. Sayed, A. Zurfi and J. Zhang, "Investigation of the effects of load parasitic inductance on SiC MOSFETs switching performance," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 125-129.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913070
Abstract: Parasitic inductances are responsible for oscillations and overshoots in the switching waveforms of SiC MOSFETs under high-frequency operations. In addition to the parasitic inductance of PCB board, bus-bar, device packaging, and drive circuit, the load inductance used for energy storage represents another source of parasitic inductance in SiC MOSFETs converters. Therefore, it is necessary to study the effect of the parasitic inductance contributed by inductive loads. This paper studies the effects of the load parasitic inductance on the switching performance of a SiC MOSFET-based switching power pole (SPP) or what traditionally defined as a half-bridge. The goal is to identify the influence of the load parasitic inductance on the overshoot and ringing in the waveforms of the device drain-to-source voltage and drain current. Using a simple procedure based on experimental measurements of the device drain-to-source voltage and drain current along with the mathematical formula of the inductance, the value of the parasitic inductance of the load inductor was evaluated.
keywords: {Inductance;MOSFET;Switches;Silicon carbide;Performance evaluation;Packaging;Inductors;SiC MOSFETs;switching transient;switching power pole;parasitic inductance;commutating current},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913070&isnumber=7912587

Y. -C. Chuang, H. -S. Chuang, C. -H. Yang and T. -C. Chen, "Low-power DC energy conversion system based on a novel single-switch current-fed series-parallel resonant converter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 130-135.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913071
Abstract: This work develops a novel single-switch current-fed series-parallel resonant converter for use in direct current (DC) energy conversion systems. The converter comprises a class-E inverter and a series-parallel resonant tank with a bridge rectifier. It uses a single active power switch to reduce the cost of the energy conversion system and control circuits. With a simple circuit configuration and few components, a highly efficient circuit is realized. Experimental data were obtained using a laboratory prototype with an input voltage of 30 V, an output voltage of 16.5 V, an output power of 15.13 W, and a switching frequency of 60 kHz. The measured prototype efficiency was 93.3 % under a full load. Accordingly, the novel converter has great potential for use in low-power DC energy conversion systems.
keywords: {Switches;Capacitors;Rectifiers;RLC circuits;Integrated circuits;Equivalent circuits;Switching circuits;energy conversion;zero voltage switching;series-parallel resonant converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913071&isnumber=7912587

A. M. Llor, S. Kouro, C. Reusser, V. Yaramasu and B. Wu, "Medium voltage 4-level double-star multilevel converter using model predictive control," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 136-140.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913072
Abstract: The double-star converter (DSC) is a recently introduced medium-voltage 4-level multilevel inverter topology, with a reduced number of active switches. This topology has several advantages over existing commercial topologies (single dc-source, no clamping elements, no bidirectional switches or flying capacitors), which can satisfy the needs of several medium voltage applictions such as pumps, fans and compressors. The main challenge with this topology is the voltage balance of the three dc-link capacitors across the modulation index range. Classic controllers require sophisticated PWM techniques with closed loop compensation to maintain the capacitor voltages balanced. In this paper, a control algorithm based on model predictive control (MPC) is applied to the DSC, allowing a direct regulation of the converter output currents while simultaneously ensuring the dc-link capacitors voltage balance. Simulation results show the effectiveness of MPC when applied to this converter.
keywords: {Capacitors;Topology;Voltage control;Switches;Prediction algorithms;Predictive models;Medium voltage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913072&isnumber=7912587

Y. G. Kim and D. Dadzie, "Microcontroller-controlled constant current DC-DC converter modules for driving a multi-wavelength LED array," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 141-146.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913073
Abstract: This paper presents the design and validation of constant current DC-DC converter modules which provide constant current operation for driving an LED array that is comprised of multiple wavelength LEDs. A high-power LED-based light source can provide optical energy to test solar panels indoors. For this application, the light source, whose optical spectrum and irradiance that is similar to solar rays, is required. The light source would consist of various types of LEDs whose wavelengths and intensities are different from one another and so the power source needs to supply a specific current and voltage for each LED. The described module consists of a DC-DC converter and constant current control circuits, which are controlled by a microcontroller. Both circuits of the module set the module's output current and voltage levels by adjusting the feedback resistances of the step-down controller and the DC amplifier gain. Two resistances are configured by a digital potentiometer IC through a microcontroller. To control multiple various types of LEDs efficiently the I2C serial bus is used. Up to 128 described modules can be attached and controlled by a single microcontroller. To verify the operation and performance, a printed-circuit board prototype has been built and tested; simulation and experimental results are presented. The measurement results show that the module successfully drives a high-power LED with the constant current operation controlled by a microcontroller.
keywords: {Light emitting diodes;Resistors;DC-DC power converters;Potentiometers;Microcontrollers;Voltage control;constant current;step-down DC-DC converter;high-power LED;multiple wavelength},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913073&isnumber=7912587

S. Heo, W. Park and I. Lee, "Microgrid design with renewable energy sources and storage based on power conditioning system for autonomous island operation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 147-152.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913074
Abstract: This paper proposes a three-phase microgrid which consists of two renewable energy sources, an energy storage, and a power conditioning system (PCS). The renewable energy generated from the photovoltaic arrays is provided to a load and the storage through an inverter and a charger, respectively. The PCS coordinates the energy flow from the sources such as a utility grid and the renewable energy sources to the storage and load, and vice versa. The microgrid based on the PCS operates alone as an island operation, which is determined autonomously according to the state-of-charge (SOC) of the storage. The autonomous island operation of the microgrid was verified through simulations using a PSIM tool.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Photovoltaic systems;Nickel;Pulse width modulation;Power conditioning;Energy storage;microgrid;power conditioning system;renewable energy;energy storage;island operation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913074&isnumber=7912587

C. Garreau and G. Gateau, "Modeling and generalization of parallel multilevel converter for the design of the closed loop's controllers," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 153-158.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913075
Abstract: Connecting legs in parallel in a buck convertor is a way to increase the output current by improving the output's waveforms. By coupling these legs, it is possible to reduce the current ripple and thus the coil volume; however this coupling adds internal variables which must be controlled in order to prevent saturation of the iron core in the couplers and keep the linearity of the system. This paper deals with the modeling of parallel multilevel converters according to the number of legs and their coupling using different methods for the purpose of achieving a balancing controller. A study on the generalization of the sizing of the controllers is also presented and experimental results are shown to verify the validity of the model.
keywords: {Legged locomotion;Couplings;Inductors;Mathematical model;Transfer functions;Logic gates;Linearity;Multilevel converter;Voltage source inverter;Intercell transformer. Parallel legs},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913075&isnumber=7912587

K. Imarazene, E. M. Berkouk and H. Chekireb, "New dc-link balancing algorithm for multilevel inverter in photovoltaic system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 159-164.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913076
Abstract: In this paper, a three-phase five level inverter with new balancing algorithm is proposed using Selective Harmonics Elimination PWM. The inverter is fed photovoltaic generator as dc source. 36 redundant vectors are making use for the 12 unbalance cases of four capacitor voltages instead of 24 cases presented in the previous works. The obtained results show that the frequency of the PWM is unchanged.
keywords: {Inverters;Capacitors;Switches;Harmonic analysis;Legged locomotion;Pulse width modulation;Multilevel converter;SHEPWM;Redundant states;Self-balancing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913076&isnumber=7912587

K. B. M. Reddy and S. Pattnaik, "Novel symmetric and asymmetric topology of multilevel inverter with reduced number of switches," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 165-170.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913077
Abstract: In this paper, a new multilevel inverter topology which can be operated in both symmetrical and asymmetrical configurations has been proposed. In order to produce all steps of voltage at output, four different algorithms are proposed to find the value of DC sources. The proposed topology reduce switch count, gate driver circuits, total voltage blocking capability and isolated DC voltage sources which leads to reduction in installation space and cost. For switching purpose multiple carrier PWM strategy has been used. Simulation results have been presented for 9-level, 17-level and 53-level operation of proposed inverter using MATLAB/SIMULINK software and the feasibility of topology has been validated experimentally.
keywords: {Topology;Inverters;Switches;Capacitors;Generators;Insulated gate bipolar transistors;Pulse width modulation;Total harmonic distortion;Multiple carrier PWM strategy;Total voltage blocking capability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913077&isnumber=7912587

A. M. Llor, M. A. Perez and S. Kouro, "Operating region of a three-phase quasi-Z-source inverter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 171-176.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913078
Abstract: The impedance source inverter family has become one of the most interesting alternatives for wind and photo-voltaic energies applications which require high conversion ratio. The main drawback of these inverters is related to the modulation signal which must be used to control the output current and voltage conversion ratio simultaneously. To deal with this problem several modulation techniques and control methods have been proposed for these inverters. However, disregarding the control method or modulation technique employed, this type of inverters exhibits fundamental restrictions in its operating conditions, particularly the relation between conversion ratio and output current. In this paper, a modified impedance source inverter, the quasi-Z-source inverter, is analyzed and its operating region in terms of voltage ratio and output current is obtained. This operating region can be used to include limitations in the control scheme. Results of the inverter working inside and in the boundaries of the operating region demonstrate the validity of the analysis.
keywords: {Inverters;Impedance;Switches;Modulation;Capacitors;Integrated circuit modeling;Mathematical model},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913078&isnumber=7912587

G. Di Capua et al., "Photocatalytic reactor with multiphase digital control of luminous radiation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 177-182.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913079
Abstract: This paper investigates the effect of controlled periodic illumination by visible LEDs on the performances of a visible-light-active N-doped TiO2 photocatalyst (N - TiO2) immobilized on glass spheres for wastewater treatment, using Methylene Blue (MB) dye as a model pollutant. Different LED dimming techniques are investigated and compared, including a classical Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) technique and a novel proposed Variable-Peak PWM technique. A modulation of dimming duty-cycle is adopted as well, which allows to control the light irradiation in a new way with respect to previously used methods. Experimental results highlight the improvement in MB photocatalytic degradation process obtained by using the proposed modulation techniques.
keywords: {Light emitting diodes;Pulse width modulation;Inductors;Voltage control;MOSFET;Lighting;Photocatalysis;Digital Control;LED Dimming;Pulse Width Modulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913079&isnumber=7912587

J. Almaguer, V. Cárdenas, A. Aganza-Torres, H. Miranda, J. Alcalá and F. Mendoza-Mondragón, "Power control of a multi-cell solid-state transformer with extended functions," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 183-188.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913080
Abstract: Electric energy is usually generated through power stations (hydroelectric, gas, coil, nuclear) interconnected to ensure the power supply; but in the last years a massive number of renewable energy resources have been integrated in the electric grid helping to fulfill the power demand. Nevertheless, the interconnection of multiple generation along the distribution system affects the power quality in medium and low voltage grids (MVAC, LVAC respectively). A solution for this is the incorporation of power quality compensators to the MVAC-LVAC coupling transformers; known as Solid-State Transformer (SST) substituting the conventional transformer and adding power quality compensation features. This paper presents a modular multilevel converter based on SST for the coupling of a low voltage grid (127 Vrms) to a medium voltage distribution system at 3.6 kV, with harmonic filtering capabilities.
keywords: {Couplings;Capacitors;Harmonic analysis;Topology;Inductors;Mathematical model;Voltage control;Solid-state transformer;Medium frequency transformer;AC-AC modular multilevel converter;Distribution system},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913080&isnumber=7912587

L. Riachy, H. Alawieh, Y. Azzouz and B. Dakyo, "Predictive current control for neutral-point voltage regulation and load balancing in three-level grid connected compensator," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 189-194.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913081
Abstract: In recent years many studies have treated the neutral-point voltage regulation problem in the Neutral-Point-Clamped (NPC) converter. Besides, many works have proposed appropriate control strategies for these grid interfacing NPC converters to compensate the problem of load current unbalance and power factor correction. This paper addresses both problems. Therefore, a predictive current control method for a three-level NPC converter capable of simultaneously compensating the problems of: neutral-point voltage regulation, load balancing and power factor correction is presented. The discrete-time model of the system is used to predict the future value of the converter currents and the capacitors voltages for all possible voltage vectors. The voltage vector which minimizes a given cost function is chosen. Reference converter currents are generated using the instantaneous p-q theory. The simulation results of the proposed method are analyzed, and its good performance is verified compared with the traditional carrier-based PWM strategy using zero-sequence voltage injection.
keywords: {Capacitors;Switches;Voltage control;Mathematical model;Current control;Topology;Radio frequency;Predictive Current Controller;Neutral-Point-Clamped Converter;DC-link Voltage Balancing;p-q Theory;Load Balancing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913081&isnumber=7912587

J. Bačmaga, R. Blečić and A. Barić, "Programmable digital IC for sub-nanoseconc dead-time adjustment used in synchronous switching DC-DC converters," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 195-200.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913082
Abstract: A digital integrated circuit for sub-nanosecond dead-time adjustment is designed and its operation principle is described. The designed dead-time adjustment circuit (DTAC) generates two complementary control signals for the FET switches used in synchronous switching DC-DC converters. The control signals are generated from a PWM signal that is provided at the input of the DTAC. The circuit is based on a tapped delay-chain architecture and it is designed for the switching frequencies up to 10 MHz. The DTAC is designed in a 0.18-μm CMOS process. The impact of the process variations, ambient temperature and supply voltage on the achievable time-delay is investigated by the post-layout simulations. Additionally, the on-chip digital `slave' circuit for serial communication is designed to allow programmability of the DTAC.
keywords: {Pulse width modulation;Field effect transistors;Pulse generation;DC-DC power converters;Switches;Logic gates;post-layout simulations;SPI communication;tapped delay-chain;synchronous buck converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913082&isnumber=7912587

X. Huang, C. Ling, X. You and T. Q. Zheng, "Research of the loss and gate desaturation control for RC-IGBT used in vehicle power converters," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 201-206.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913083
Abstract: Most power systems of modern electric locomotives, EMUs, high-speed trains, urban rail transits and electric vehicles are composed by IGBT converter. Compared with the general inverter and industrial converter, the vehicles power converter has higher requirements in power density, volume structure, installation quality and other indicators. Reverse Conducting IGBT (RC-IGBT) constructs the conventional IGBT function and freewheel diode function in a single chip, which has greater current capacity in the same package volume referring to conventional IGBT. Under the same cooling conditions, RC-IGBT allows a higher operating junction temperature because of a lower thermal resistance and switching losses. What's more, the integrated diode of RC-IGBT with controllable reverse recovery characteristics could benefit the recovery losses. This paper introduces the fundamental working principle of RC-IGBT and the characteristics of diode desaturation control at first. An optimal control strategy of RC-IGBT in converter system is studied. Analyze of the working performance and loss characteristics is carried on. At last, a specific application parameters applied to simulation and calculation is carried out to analyze and compare the working characteristic and loss characteristic of RC-IGBT and conventional IGBT.
keywords: {Decision support systems;XML;power converter;Reverse-Conducting IGBT;Gate pulse desaturation;switching loss},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913083&isnumber=7912587

K. Subasinghage, K. Gunawardane, T. T. Lie and N. Kularatna, "Single-input, dual polarity, dual output DC-DC converter implementation based on the SCALDO technique," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 207-212.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913084
Abstract: Supercapacitor assisted low dropout regulator (SCALDO) is a new approach to designing high-efficiency DC-DC converters by combining supercapacitors and a commercial LDO. In this approach, the end-to-end efficiency of the converter is increased by a multiplication factor, in the range of 1.33 to 3, compared with the efficiency of a linear regulator circuit with the same input-output voltages. SCALDO technique can be extended to develop a dual polarity, dual output version suitable for powering portable products, with efficiencies comparable with switching converter combinations giving dual polarity outputs. In this paper, theoretical background and the conceptual design of the proposed converter are discussed. As a proof of concept 12 V to ±5 V DC-DC converter is implemented and its efficiency, load regulation, and line regulation details are presented.
keywords: {Switches;Pins;DC-DC power converters;Regulators;Supercapacitors;SCALDO;LDO;supercapacitor;dual polarity;dual output;DC-DC converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913084&isnumber=7912587

I. Villanueva, A. Rosales, P. Ponce and A. Molina, "Stator-flux-oriented sliding mode controller for DFIG with variable hysteresis loop for limiting switch frequency of rotor-side power converter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 213-218.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913085
Abstract: Doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) is the most implemented electric machine in wind energy conversion systems (WECS) due to reduced size converter, active and reactive power control and economic factors. However, the power electronic stage needs an accurate controller that allows to follow the stator power regulation. As a result, Sliding-Mode Control (SMC) has been successfully implemented in DFIG because the natural discontinuous control signals arising from the controller can be used for direct switching of power electronic devices. Yet, switching frequency of SMC depends on the sample rate, controller parameters and electric machine dynamics; this conditions produce a control signal with a variable switching frequency hindering implementation. In this paper a stator-flux-Oriented sliding-mode controller with a hysteresis band that limits the switching frequency of power electronic devices to a set value is presented. This methodology improves previous proposals by limiting switching frequency making implementation more feasible. Simulation results are presented to validate the control methodology.
keywords: {Stators;Switching frequency;Rotors;Switches;Torque},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913085&isnumber=7912587

G. Vivek and J. Biswas, "Study on hybrid SVPWM sequences for two level VSIs," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 219-224.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913086
Abstract: Space vector pulse width modulation (SVPWM) is widely used because of their easier digital realization and better DC bus utilization and lower THD. Various types of SVPWM strategies exist. The hybrid SVPWM strategy considers various SVPWM sequences and places the best performance sequence for a given reference vector and it proves to be superior in comparison with the conventional strategies. This paper explains the experimental study of various hybrid SVPWM sequences for a 2 KVA two level voltage source inverter and evaluates their harmonic performance in terms of weighted total harmonic distortion and ripple loss under loaded and no load conditions for an 415 V, 2 hp, 50 Hz, 3-phase induction motor load.
keywords: {Space vector pulse width modulation;Switches;Clamps;Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Voltage source inverter (VSI);Space Vector PWM (SVPWM);Weighted total harmonic distortion (Vwthd)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913086&isnumber=7912587

Y. Yao, Y. Fang, H. Xiong, Z. Tian, S. Cao and Y. Xie, "Study on quasi resonant grid-connected current compensation method with controllable switching period," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 225-229.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913087
Abstract: In order to improve the performance-price ratio of the grid-connected photovoltaic power generation micro-inverter, with the grid-connected flyback inverter as the research object, an open-loop control strategy based on the critical continuous operation mode is studied in this paper. According to the current in the grid, the peak current in the primary and secondary inductors of the flyback inverter can be calculated, and the turn-on and turn-off time of switch can be calculated by the electromotive force formula of inductor, thus controlling the turn-on and turn-off of switch in the flyback inverter. As this open-loop control method does not need the feedback control of the actual grid current, the cost of the system can be reduced. In order to improve the efficiency of the flyback micro-inverter, a quasi resonant control method based on the equal average current is also presented in this paper. When the switch off, select the appropriate resonant valley point of the drain-source voltage to turn on the switch and follow the principle of equal average grid current, then new peak current in the primary and secondary side can be calculated, thus obtaining the turn-on and turn-off of switch. The method in this paper can effectively control the switching period and reduce the switching loss, and the experimental results show that the algorithm in this paper can realize the grid-connected power generation of the grid-connected flyback micro-inverter and have high reliability and low cost.
keywords: {Two dimensional displays;flyback converter;quasi resonant;controllable switching period;soft-switching},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913087&isnumber=7912587

M. N. Uddin, A. H. Abedin, K. L. Bashar, S. Islam and M. A. Choudhury, "Three phase one switch modular-boost/vienna power factor corrected (PFC) rectifier," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 230-235.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913088
Abstract: The power conversion circuit of a three phase Vienna or Modular-Boost switching power factor corrected (PFC) rectifier uses three controlled switches, eighteen diodes and two output split capacitors. Three PFC controller circuits are necessary for conversion circuit's voltage regulation, power factor control and input current waveform improvement. The circuit has been modified to have fewer active and passive components in the power circuit. The input voltages and currents are sensed and conditioned to one voltage and one current signal for the feedback controller circuit. Reduction of controlled switches, diodes of the power circuit, sensors, isolation, base drive supply circuits makes overall operation of the circuit reliable. The proposed three phase boost PFC rectifier circuit is easy to design, fabricate, operate and maintain. It occupies less space and is lighter in weight. Disadvantages of unidirectional power flow and only step-up voltage gain characteristics of conventional three phase Vienna/Modular-Boost rectifiers remain in the proposed modified circuits.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Switching circuits;Voltage control;Switches;Reactive power;Feedback control;Capacitors;Three phase three switch modular rectifier;Vienna rectifier;Single switch modular boost/modified Vienna rectifier},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913088&isnumber=7912587

B. Agrawal, M. Preindl and A. Emadi, "Turn-off energy minimization for soft-switching power converters with wide bandgap devices," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 236-241.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913089
Abstract: The advent of Silicon-Carbide and Gallium-Nitride MOSFETs offers potential to realize higher energy density power converters operating at increased switching frequencies. The maximum switching frequency in a power converter is limited by the ability of the switching device package to dissipate its switching and conduction losses. At a given value of drain-source voltage and current, the turn-on losses in a MOSFET are usually greater than the turn-off losses. This paper introduces a soft-switching technique for power converters using wide bandgap devices to replace the larger turn-on losses with smaller turn-off losses and thus reduce the power dissipation of the overall system. The turn-off losses are further reduced with use of additional capacitance across the MOSFET drain-source terminals. Results from an analytical model, LTSpice simulation and experimentation are shown to match closely, with a significant reduction in overall system losses.
keywords: {Switches;MOSFET;Capacitance;Inductors;Analytical models;Capacitors;Switching frequency;Additional output capacitance;negative inductor current;reduced turn-off losses;soft-switching},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913089&isnumber=7912587

G. Di Capua, N. Femia and K. Stoyka, "Validation of inductors sustainable-saturation-operation in switching power supplies design," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 242-247.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913090
Abstract: This paper discusses a novel method to validate Sustainable Saturation Operation (SSO) of ferrite inductors in switching power supplies design. SSO is achieved when an inductor operates in partial saturation, with ripple current, power losses and temperature rise fulfilling reliability and efficiency requirements. Achieving inductors SSO permits to reduce the size of power supplies. The method presented in this paper allows the SSO validation of inductors complying with the power supply specifications. A buck converter with Vin= 36V, Vout = 12 V, fs = 450kHz, Iout = [4, 5]A is adopted as reference case study to provide validation to the proposed approach.
keywords: {Inductors;Inductance;Ferrites;Magnetic cores;Mathematical model;Power supplies;Magnetic fields;Sustainable Saturation Operation;Ferrite Power Inductors;Switch Mode Power Supplies Design},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913090&isnumber=7912587

Z. Liu, B. Zhang and K. Zhou, "Virtual delay unit based digital nk ± m-order harmonic repetitive controller for PWM converter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 248-253.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913091
Abstract: Repetitive control (RC) scheme presents an attractive solution to achieve excellent steady-state tracking error and low total harmonic distortion (THD) for periodic signals. RC can produce extremely large gains at fundamental and each harmonic frequency of reference signal to achieve all harmonics suppression. However, a DC-AC inverter always has uneven THD distribution, e.g. THD concentrates at 4fc ± 1 orders for signal-phase inverter, and 6k ± 1 orders for three-phase inverter. Furthermore, a digital RC requires a integral ratio of the sampling frequency and the reference frequency, whereas the digital control system cannot always meet this requirement. For example, (e.g. 60 Hz reference signal with a 5 kHz sampling frequency, or grid-connected converter under grid frequency fluctuation, etc.). In this paper, virtual delay unit (VDU) based digital nk ± m-order harmonic RC is presented to solve the problems above. The VDU produces a different virtual RC sampling frequency from the system sampling frequency. The virtual sampling frequency for digital RC can be flexibly adjusted based on the integral ratio requirement. The advantage of VDU is that it does not vary the system sampling frequency and it is easy to be realized. Furthermore, nk ± m-order harmonic repetitive controller is selected to provide a selective harmonic compensation (SHC). Experimental results of VDU based nk±m-order harmonic RC for 60 Hz single-phase DC/AC inverter with 5 kHz system sampling frequency are provided to show the effectiveness of the proposed VDU-based SHC.
keywords: {Delays;Harmonic analysis;Inverters;Frequency control;Voltage control;Frequency conversion;Pulse width modulation;Virtual delay unit;nk ± m-order harmonic suppression;repetitive control;phase lead compensation;fractional delay;DC/AC inverter;total harmonic distortion},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913091&isnumber=7912587

"Electrical machines and drives," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 254-256.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913092
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913092&isnumber=7912587

B. P. Reddy, B. S. Umesh, A. M. Rao, B. V. Ravi Kumar and K. S. Kumar, "A five speed 45-phase induction motor drive with pole phase modulation for electric vehicles," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 258-263.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913093
Abstract: Multi-phase induction motor (MIM) drives with polephase modulation (PPM) is suitable for the Electric vehicle(EV) applications because of the reasons, like constant power operation with high efficiency over an extended speed-torque range and high reliability. By using Pole-Phase modulation, in this paper a 45-phase squirrel-cage induction motor (IM) drive is proposed with 1:3:5:9:15 speed ratios for EV applications. The proposed 45-phase IM drive with 90 stator slots is able to operate at five different pole-phase combinations, i.e., 45-phase 2-pole, 15-phase 6-pole, 9-phase 10-pole, 5-phase 18-pole and 3-phase 30-pole. The above five combinations make this MIM drive is suitable for EV applications, which eliminates the mechanical gear system in conventional EV. This can be helpful for saving the size and weight of the vehicle. This MIM drive offers the high torque for starting acceleration and gradient routes at low speeds and provides the high power for medium and high speed cruising, which is analogous to the typical five gear IC engine. The simulation of the 5hp 45-phase IM drive is verified with the help of Ansys Maxwell-2D (an electro-magnetic design tool) and Simplorer environment by co-simulating the FEM 2-D model.
keywords: {Torque;Windings;Gears;Stator windings;Integrated circuits;Engines;Electric vehicles(EV);1:3:5:9;15 Speed-ratios;Pole-Phase modulation (PPM);Multi-phase induction motor (MIM) drive;IC engine},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913093&isnumber=7912587

M. Lahdo, S. Kovalev and T. Ströhla, "A lorentz actuator for high-precision magnetically levitated planar systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 264-269.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913094
Abstract: This paper presents a Lorentz actuator, which generates repulsive levitation and propulsion forces using only one permanent magnet. It provides a compact and cost-effective solution for magnetically levitated planar systems. Based on the proposed Lorentz actuator, a novel six degrees-of-freedom (6-DoF) magnetically levitated planar positioning system will be presented. The main advantage of the proposed concept is the decoupled levitation- and propulsion forces in combination with a freely accessible moving element from above. Moreover, it uses the minimum number of magnets and actuators in order to generate a movement in 6-DoF. In order to determine the levitation force, a semi-analytical expression will be derived based on the magnetic scalar potential. The calculated levitation forces from the derived equation and the validation by measurements and three-dimensional finite-element method are presented as well.
keywords: {Magnetic levitation;Actuators;Force;Propulsion;Permanent magnets;Magnetic flux;2-DoF actuator;magnetic levitation;6-DoF planar system;Lorentz force},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913094&isnumber=7912587

M. Comanescu, "Design of a pseudo-MRAS sliding mode observer with double feedback for estimation of the rotor time constant of the induction motor," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 270-275.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913095
Abstract: The paper presents a method to estimate the inverse of the rotor time constant of the induction motor. The estimation is done using a sliding mode observer under the assumption that the stationary frame fluxes are known. These fluxes are first obtained using a voltage model observer; they are also used for field orientation. With measured voltages, currents, known fluxes and speed, the rotor time constant is estimated using a pseudo-MRAS sliding mode observer with dual feedback terms. The paper shows the design of this observer - this works well under ideal conditions. However, if the speed is inaccurate or if the magnetizing inductance saturates, the estimation accuracy suffers. The paper develops a model for the saturated induction motor and, using the equivalent controls that correspond to the sliding mode terms, attempts to estimate the saturation level - however, it is found that this is not possible.
keywords: {Observers;Induction motors;Rotors;Mathematical model;Voltage measurement;Stators;induction motor control;voltage model observer;sliding mode observer;model reference adaptive control;rotor time constant estimation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913095&isnumber=7912587

M. Comanescu, "Design of an adaptive estimator for the speed and load torque of the PMSM using an extended dynamic model," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 276-281.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913096
Abstract: The paper presents a method to estimate the rotor position, speed and load torque of the PMSM drive. Estimation is based on an extended dynamic model of the PMSM and is done using sequential observers. A first observer estimates the EMFs of the motor; these are used to compute the rotor position angle. The EMFs along with the angle are used as inputs to a second observer which estimates the speed and the load torque. The speed is obtained from an adaptive law. The paper presents the estimation mathematics and the gain design of the observers. It is shown that, under ideal conditions, the estimates of the speed and torque are accurate. Under parameter uncertainty or parameter variations, the adaptive speed estimate is still very accurate; the estimate of the load torque loses accuracy.
keywords: {Observers;Torque;Rotors;Mathematical model;Load modeling;Permanent magnet motors;sensorless control;permanent magnet synchronous motor;speed estimation;load torque estimation;adaptive observer},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913096&isnumber=7912587

S. E. Pandarakone, K. Akahori, T. Matsumura, Y. Mizuno and H. Nakamura, "Development of a methodology for bearing fault scrutiny and diagnosis using SVM," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 282-287.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913097
Abstract: In recent days, the necessity to condition monitoring and maintenance has increased to a greater extent. Even though there are various main components available in the induction motor, bearing is something crucial where we need to concentrate. Hence the fault occurs in the bearing has to be paid more intention. In most of the cases, holes had been formed in the bearing of the induction motor for fault analysis. Whereas considering the industrial environment, the chance of occurrence of scratch is considerably higher than the possibilities of holes. Hence in this paper, scratch has been considered as a factor for fault analysis. Thus by considering the two types of scratches on the outer raceway of bearing, experimental results were obtained at the different load condition. Following that, the detection of the bearing fault is achieved by the Fast Fourier Transform. Finally, the diagnosis was performed with the help of Support Vector Machine.
keywords: {Induction motors;Support vector machines;Spectral analysis;Stators;Industries;Current measurement;Feature extraction;Feature analysis;bearing fault;support vector machine;fault diagnosis;induction motor;scratch},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913097&isnumber=7912587

B. D. G. Vidanalage, M. S. Toulabi and S. Filizadeh, "Electromagnetic design optimization and sensitivity analysis for IPM synchronous motors," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 288-293.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913098
Abstract: This paper presents the electromagnetic design optimization for a 12-slot, 8-pole, concentrated winding, V-shaped magnet Interior Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor (IPMSM) using a Genetic Algorithm (GA). Three distinct objective functions are considered. These include minimum weight, minimum loss, and a combined multi-objective function to minimize both the weight and the losses. The three optimized machines are compared with a non-optimized preliminary design using 2D-Finite Element Analysis (FEA). The multi-objective optimal design shows major efficiency improvements (1.25%) and weight reduction (0.918 kg) compared to the preliminary design. Sensitivity analysis is conducted on this optimized machine, which evaluates its weight and efficiency variations as a function of deviations in the optimized variables.
keywords: {Magnetic flux;Genetic algorithms;Air gaps;Stator windings;Torque;Windings;Interior Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors (IPMSMs);Genetic Algorithms;Design Optimization;Sensitivity Analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913098&isnumber=7912587

S. Basak and C. Chakraborty, "Improved voltage regulation of dual stator induction generator using series and shunt capacitors," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 294-299.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913099
Abstract: Dual stator winding induction generator, being brush-less and magnet-less, has been found to be suitable for remotely located wind-electrical systems where maintenance becomes a key issue. Since this generator has a squirrel cage rotor and two distributed stator windings, manufacturing process is simple and system becomes rugged. Both the windings may contribute active and reactive power when operated with suitable controller and power-electronic interface. In this configuration, the main winding is connected to a diode-bridge rectifier. The other uses a controlled inverter. It is well known that reactive power consumption of induction generators rises with increase in load. A combination of series and shunt capacitors can be utilised to mitigate the above mentioned issues. Two possible configurations have been investigated through simulation studies on MATLAB/Simulink and a comparative assessment among the two has been carried out. Experimental investigation has been conducted on a dSPACE 1103 based prototype and a sample result has been presented.
keywords: {Windings;Voltage control;Stator windings;Rotors;Reactive power;Induction generators;Inductance;Brushless Generation Systems;Dual Stator Winding Induction Generator;Micro-Grid;Renewable Energy Extraction},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913099&isnumber=7912587

M. Dooner and J. Wang, "Initial study on the magnetic field characteristics of a novel magnetised air scroll expander," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 300-305.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913100
Abstract: Air scroll expanders are increasingly used in energy recovery systems, such as Organic Rankine Cycles (ORC) and compressed air exhaust recovery, and in small scale Compressed Air Energy Storage (CAES) systems. Most of these systems use waste high pressure fluid to drive the expander, which in turn provides mechanical energy directly, or drives a generator. The purpose of this work is to investigate the feasibility of combining the expander and generator into one device by modifying an air scroll expander by inserting magnets and coils into the scrolls and exploiting the relative motion between them to directly generate electricity. The magnetic field generated by the magnets is simulated using Finite Element Analysis (FEA) techniques and a 3D printed prototype. It was found that having multiple magnets in the moving scroll produce a magnetic field with numerous peaks of magnetic flux density. The number, position and size of the peaks were dependent on the number, position, size and polarity of the magnets. The presence of peaks in the magnetic flux indicates that the device could be used to generate electricity with the addition of coils and warrants further investigation.
keywords: {Magnetic flux;Coils;Mathematical model;Generators;Magnetic devices;Orbits;Energy storage;Electrical Machines;Magnetics;Modelling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913100&isnumber=7912587

E. Ghosh, A. Mollaeian, S. Kim, J. Tjong and N. C. Kar, "Intelligent flux predictive control through online stator inter-turn fault detection for fault-tolerant control of induction motor," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 306-311.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913101
Abstract: Inter-turn insulation failure in induction motor results in complete or developing winding short circuit. Stator winding fault leads to an unbalance in the three phases of the motor leading to a faulty induction motor with increased time and space harmonics of flux. This can lead to uneven distribution of air gap flux and increase in torque ripple. The condition is worsened due to an unbalance in the voltage supply depreciating the optimal performance of the drive-based It is of primary importance that the aforementioned discrepancies are taken care of while modelling a more fault tolerant motor drive system with faster processing and lower response time. This paper proposes a novel control technique to reduce the unbalance in the motor due to stator fault by taking into account the air-gap flux developed in the motor and harmonics generated. An improved swarm optimization algorithm has been used in order to efficiently predict the flux reference for the stator-flux controlled motor drive. The proposed detection scheme has been implemented on an aluminum-rotor induction motor with incipient stator inter-fault with the help of online monitoring of unhealthy conditions and using it as a feedback for the drive system, thereby a robust online detection of fault and a stable fault control system.
keywords: {Stator windings;Harmonic analysis;Rotors;Induction motors;Circuit faults;Couplings;Magnetic flux density;Search coil;Stator inter-turn fault;Space harmonics;Time harmonics;Unbalanced induction motor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913101&isnumber=7912587

S. S. Refaat, H. Abu-Rub, A. Mohamed and M. Trabelsi, "Investigation into the effect of unbalanced supply voltage on detection of stator winding turn fault in PMSM," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 312-317.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913102
Abstract: In recent years, permanent magnet synchronous motors (PMSM) are becoming popular in industrial applications. It is difficult to have perfectly balanced 3 phase ac supply voltages in power system. In fact, line supply voltages typically differ by a few volts or more, and hence unbalanced supply voltages can exist anywhere in a three-phase power distribution system. This paper presents a study of PMSM with stator winding turn fault and different load conditions under balanced and various unbalanced supply voltages. Three-phase PMSM is simulated for healthy and faulty conditions with stator turn fault at different loads using finite element analysis. Experimental laboratory results validate the analysis and demonstrate that the proposed approach can be used for both balanced and unbalanced supply voltage, as a reliable indicator for detecting different insulation failure percentages of stator winding at different load conditions.
keywords: {stator winding turn fault;Fault detection;PMSM;unbalanced supply voltage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913102&isnumber=7912587

J. Zhang, X. Guo and X. Huang, "Method research of permanent magnet synchronous motor position sensorless control over full speed range," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 318-323.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913103
Abstract: For position sensorless control of permanent magnet synchronous motor (PMSM), a single position estimation control algorithm is difficult to satisfy the accurate estimation of the rotor speed and position in wide speed range. In this paper, the influence of non-ideal factors such as inverter non-ideal factors, stator resistance changes on the accuracy of position estimation are analyzed. According to the analyze, the pulsating high frequency voltage injection method is more suitable for motor start and low speed range. The rotor position is estimated by the model reference adaptive system (MRAS) method in the high-speed stage. By using the combination of pulsating high frequency voltage injection method and MRAS, the position sensorless control of the PMSM from zero speed to high speed is realized. Simulation and experimental results shows that the proposed sensorless control system based on the complex algorithm has good dynamic response performance within full speed.
keywords: {Decision support systems;position sensorless control;non-ideal factors analysis;pulsating high-frequency voltage injection method;MRAS},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913103&isnumber=7912587

L. Vesely and Z. Mynar, "Model predictive control of SPMSM based on FPGA and processor," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 324-329.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913104
Abstract: This paper shows implementation of an explicit linear model predictive control (MPC) of surface mounted permanent magnet synchronous motor (SMPMSM) on field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and dual-core processor. The most notable advantage of an MPC algorithm, in comparison with standard field oriented control (FOC), is the correct constraints handling and natural way of control objective definition. The selected MPC algorithm, described in first part of this article, also achieves field weakening ability, thanks to the modified linearization and constraints handling. General disadvantage of an MPC is relatively high computational complexity. The requirement of high-performing hardware is met by implementation on FPGA and dual-core processor. The experimental validation of this approach is the focus of the second part of this paper.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Field programmable gate arrays;Stators;Optimization;Computational modeling;Voltage control;Heuristic algorithms},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913104&isnumber=7912587

U. K. Soni and R. K. Tripathi, "Novel back EMF zero difference point detection based sensorless technique for BLDC motor," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 330-335.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913105
Abstract: In this paper a novel position sensorless scheme named Back EMF Zero Difference Point (ZDP) detection has been proposed for six-switch VSI converter fed permanent magnet BLDC motor. This technique is based on the comparison of back EMFs and detection of the points in the back EMF waveforms where they cross each other or in other words they are equal. Commutation point is achieved exactly at the same instant when the difference of back EMFs of any two phases becomes zero. The simulation study has been carried out for the proposed sensorless scheme. The proposed sensorless scheme has the excellent performance from zero to the extra high speed. The method needs no additional delay circuit as used for calculation of commutation point from back EMF ZCP and involves less calculation burden. The method is fault tolerant and accurate even in the case of noise in measurement (or estimation) of phase back EMFs. A nonzero threshold value proportional to input voltage (or reference speed) is used for overcoming the problem due to quantization and sampling for digital implementation. This method proves to be excellent substitute of hall sensing scheme as it also senses at zero speed.
keywords: {Switches;Back;Commutation;Robot sensing systems;Rotors;Delays;Brushless motors;BLDC motor;back EMF ZDP;commutation;sensorless control;zero difference point},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913105&isnumber=7912587

R. Caro, C. A. Silva, R. Pérez and J. I. Yuz, "Sensorless control of a SynRM for the whole speed range based on a nonlinear observability analysis," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 336-341.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913253
Abstract: The synchronous reluctance motor (SynRM) is gaining popularity for general purpose drivers, where the sensorless operation is important. It is well known that, at low-speed, the saliency of these machines can be exploited for sensorless control down to stand-still through high-frequency (HF) signal injection. Nevertheless, the use of a separate HF model makes more complex the integration with the fundamental model valid at higher speeds. In this paper, an observability analysis is presented, leading to a single observer that captures both the fundamental and high-frequency characteristics of the machine. This leads to the proposal of a single observer, based on the extended Kalman filter algorithm, that is able to merge the saliency information obtained through HF injection and the fundamental information from the back-EMF of the machine. This strategy maximizes the utilization of the available rotor position information, minimizing the amount of HF signal injection required. Hence, leading to increased efficiency and reduced acoustic HF noise while achieving smooth transitions between low-speed and high-speed operation regions.
keywords: {Observability;Rotors;Torque;Kalman filters;Load modeling;Observers;Stators},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913253&isnumber=7912587

R. V. Nair, S. A. Rahul, K. Gopakumar, L. G. Franquelo and S. Williamson, "Stacked multilevel inverter fed six phase induction motor with reduced DC link and lower voltage devices," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 342-347.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913254
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel configuration of six phase IM to drive from a three phase stacked multilevel inverter. Apart from greater fault tolerance compared to three phase, a six phase machine enables the use of low voltage devices for the inverter. Also the inverter used here is a three phase nine level stacked inverter which itself uses low voltage devices. Thus MOSFETs can be used for the inverter. The nine level inverter is formed by stacking 2 five level inverters each of which is developed by cascading an FC and a capacitor fed H-bridge. The inverter can be stacked further to obtain still higher number of voltage levels. This enables the use of batteries at the front end and still lower voltage devices which will significanly improve the efficiency. Hence this will find applications in electric vehicles because of the direct battery drive. Experiment is conducted on a 15 KW six phase IM by reconfiguring it as a three phase machine and driven by the three phase nine level stacked inverter using V/f control scheme. Detailed experimental results are provided to validate the concept.
keywords: {Inverters;Capacitors;Windings;Stacking;Switches;Low voltage;Batteries},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913254&isnumber=7912587

"Renewable energy systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 348-350.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913255
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913255&isnumber=7912587

G. Luo, J. Meng, X. Ji, X. Cai and F. Gao, "A data driven model for accurate SOC estimation in EVs," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 352-357.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913256
Abstract: Accurate state of charge (SOC) is critical for battery energy management system in electric vehicle (EV) application. Overcharge and over discharge will shorten battery's lifespan and induce potential safety problem, which may even permanently damage the lithium-ion battery. Thus, a data driven model is proposed for improving the accuracy of SOC estimation in this paper. A preliminary mathematic model under constant current is established, which can match the primary high SOC stage. Since the battery model is nonlinear, model free adaptive control (MFAC) is used to get the dynamic linearization model and accomplish SOC estimation process on the basis of the mathematic model. With the small sample scale of new data updated, a data driven model based on partial least squares (PLS) is obtained online. The accuracy of the mathematic model also decreases during the operating process. Finally, the calculated values from the two different models are mixed for an accurate SOC. Experimental results on lithium polymer battery prove the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Mathematical model;State of charge;Batteries;Estimation;Data models;Adaptation models;SOC estimation;PLS;MFAC;Li-ion battery},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913256&isnumber=7912587

T. Sreekanth, N. L. Narasamma and M. K. Mishra, "A high gain grid connected single stage inverter system with reactive power control," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 358-363.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913257
Abstract: Single stage converter system (SSCS) does both dc-dc conversion and dc-ac conversion in one stage. In this paper, a SSCS for photovoltaic (PV) applications is presented. This system can deliver active power from PV to the grid while continuously tracking maximum power point (MPP). The proposed system is controlled such that it can deliver/receive reactive power from grid. The presented system has several advantages like high gain, low switching loss and compact in size. This system can be used effectively in PV systems, where output voltage of PV is very low. Control scheme of the system along with derivation of control loops is presented. The proposed topology is simulated using MATLAB/SIMULINK, simulation results are presented to validate the proposed idea.
keywords: {Switches;Voltage control;Capacitors;Reactive power;Reactive power control;Topology;Maximum power point trackers;Single stage;high gain;MPP;photovoltaic;buck-boost inverter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913257&isnumber=7912587

R. Shi and J. Peng, "A novel control strategy for ORC system with unsteady heat source," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 364-369.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913258
Abstract: A novel control strategy, named disturbance based control input design, is proposed in this study to improve the performance of Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) system with unsteady heat source. ORC system for exhaust gas heat recovery of automobile engine is taken as the example. Conventional single variable and multiple variable control strategies are introduced briefly and compared with the proposed strategy. The disturbance based control input design for ORC is also a single variable control strategy, but the control input variable is designed based on the mass flow rate of exhaust gas by means of system improvement. Simulation results show that the ORC system works steadily in the process of a sharp deceleration of engine. The power output and cycle efficiency also increase greatly and remain stable, compared with the conventional ORC system. These results also imply that the disturbance based control input can replace the conventional control input variables and improve the system performance.
keywords: {Fluids;Input variables;Heating systems;Heat engines;MIMO;organic Rankine cycle;control strategy design;waste heat recovery;exhaust gas;system improvement},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913258&isnumber=7912587

L. Wang, B. Zhang, D. Qiu and L. Wang, "A novel flicker-free AC-DC LED driver without electrolytic capacitor," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 370-375.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913259
Abstract: In this paper, a novel flicker-free ac/dc LED driver without electrolytic capacitor is presented. The driver comprises a single-stage boost-forward converter and a bidirectional buck-boost converter, which serves to bypass the low frequency ripple. Therefore, electrolytic capacitor is no longer needed. Compared with other electrolytic capacitor-less topologies, the proposed driver has the advantages of almost unity input power factor, less energy storage, less capacitance needed, and constant output current. The operation principle, design process, and control strategy are presented. And the feasibility of the proposed converter is verified by a prototype with 30-V, 1.0-A output.
keywords: {Capacitors;Light emitting diodes;Capacitance;Topology;Frequency conversion;Pins;Stress},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913259&isnumber=7912587

A. Ahadi and X. Liang, "A stand-alone hybrid renewable energy system assessment using cost optimization method," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 376-381.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913260
Abstract: In this paper, a stand-alone hybrid renewable energy system is proposed, which consists of solar PV, wind turbine, and energy storage with the combination of battery and hydrogen. This energy storage system partly relies on energy conversion through two components, electrolysis and fuel cell. When the hybrid system generates more electricity than load demand, hydrogen is produced via electrolysis and stored in a tank; when the hybrid system needs more electricity, the fuel cell can convert hydrogen back into electricity. Cost optimization of the proposed hybrid system is essential for finding optimal sizing of individual components. In this paper, the net present cost (NPC) method is used to minimize the total cost of the system through the software tool HOMER (Hybrid Optimization Model for Electric Renewables) developed by National Renewable Energy Laboratory. The NPC method is best tailored for such a purpose because it considers all revenues and costs occurring during the life cycle of the project. A case study is conducted for economic assessment of the proposed hybrid system implemented in Ardabil, north-western Iran. Two additional energy storage scenarios, with only battery and with only hydrogen, are also investigated in the case study. It is found that using the combination of battery and hydrogen as energy storage is a more efficient option. The proposed stand-alone hybrid renewable energy system is suitable to supply power for rural homes and farms, and marine electric systems.
keywords: {Hydrogen;Wind turbines;Batteries;Renewable energy sources;Fuel cells;Optimization;Battery;Cost Optimization;Energy Storage;Fuel Cell;Hybrid Renewable Energy System;Hydrogen;Net Present Cost (NPC) Method},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913260&isnumber=7912587

J. Wang, S. Hashemi, S. You and C. Trœholt, "Active and reactive power support of MV distribution systems using battery energy storage," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 382-387.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913261
Abstract: Adoption of Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESSs) for provision of grid services is increasing. This paper investigates the applications of BESS for the grid upgrade deferral and voltage support of Medium Voltage (MV) distribution systems. A BESS is modelled in Matlab/Simulink to perform peak load shaving and voltage support service from the perspective of Distribution System Operators (DSOs). An active power support algorithm is implemented and the effects of various load profiles as well as different Photovoltaic (PV) penetration scenarios on the operation of BESS and the optimal BESS converter size for peak load shaving are investigated. The BESS annual lifetime degradation is also estimated using a rainflow counting algorithm. A reactive power support algorithm embedded with Q-U droop control is proposed in order to reduce the voltage drop in a part of 10 kV distribution network of Nordhavn in Copenhagen, and the effects of active and reactive power support by BESS on the grid voltage are investigated.
keywords: {Voltage control;Load modeling;Reactive power;Reactive power control;Mathematical model;Energy storage;Power control;Battery energy storage system (BESS);peak load shaving;voltage support},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913261&isnumber=7912587

D. K. Singh, A. K. Singh and S. R. Mohanty, "An adaptive transmission line protection and modelling of numerical distance relay with analog antialiasing filter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 388-393.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913262
Abstract: Power system restructuring includes several new aspects in power system, especially in the area of transmission line protection. Therefore, in this paper transmission line protection (TLP) using distance relay and modelling of distance relay with analog antialiasing filter for TLP is presented, on the basis of several points of operational aspects, throughout the last decade. Protection system of transmission line is mainly dealt by the circuit breakers (CB), distance relay (DR) and over current relay (OCR), to proper transmit the electric power from sending end to receiving end, without suffering from any difficulty and dangerous condition to the power system. Various protection schemes and techniques related to TLP improvement, both in AC as well as DC power systems [1]. Distance relay is used for different zone protection according to the medium length (10 Km-200 Km) of transmission line (TL).
keywords: {Protective relaying;Impedance;Power transmission lines;Circuit faults;Trajectory;Power system protection;Resistance;Circuit breaker;Distance relay;fault impedance (Zf);Protection schemes and techniques;Transmission line protection},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913262&isnumber=7912587

D. Deb, M. Patel and H. Singh, "Automated cleaning of wind turbine blades with no downtime," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 394-399.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913263
Abstract: Several factors affect the power generation efficiency of wind energy extracted from wind turbines. One of them is dust accumulation resulting in roughness of the blade surface and resulting in power loss. To overcome this problem, wind turbine blades need to be cleaned frequently. There are some existing techniques of cleaning but not very efficient and economically viable. In this paper, we have analyzed and discussed, an algorithm for fully automated wind turbine blade cleaning system with no downtime and thereby more economically efficient even over the semi-automated blade cleaning solutions available in literature. The proposed solution also does not use water jets unlike other existing solutions.
keywords: {Blades;Cleaning;Robot sensing systems;Wind turbines;Rails;Manipulators},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913263&isnumber=7912587

C. Huang, Y. Huang, K. Huang, S. Chen and S. Yang, "Deterministic and probabilistic wind power forecasting using a hybrid method," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 400-405.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913264
Abstract: This paper proposes a hybrid method for probabilistic wind power forecasting. The proposed approach consists of data classification, deterministic forecasting and probabilistic forecasting stages. In the data classification stage, a fuzzy k-means clustering algorithm is used to classify the historical time series of wind power into various wind classes. Several support vector regression (SVR) models that correspond to diverse wind speeds are then established to train the collected data in the deterministic forecasting stage. An enhanced harmony search (EHS) algorithm is presented to estimate the parameters for each SVR model. Using the wind speed forecasts given by Taiwan Central Weather Bureau (TCWB) for every three hours, a corresponding forecasting model is then used to produce wind power forecasts for future 3 hours in steps of 15 minutes. To assess the risk that is associated with forecasting errors, an EHS-based quantile regression (QR) method is used to provide the confidence intervals for forecasted values in the probabilistic forecasting stage. During testing on a practical wind power generation systems, the proposed method gives better forecasting accuracy and produces more reasonable confidence intervals than existing methods.
keywords: {Decision support systems;Forecasting;Probabilistic logic;Uncertainty;Support vector machines;Wind power generation;Hybrid power systems;wind power forecasting;uncertainty analysis;support vector regression;quantile regression},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913264&isnumber=7912587

D. Lopez, F. Flores-Bahamonde, H. Renaudineau and S. Kouro, "Double voltage step-up photovoltaic microinverter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 406-411.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913265
Abstract: In conventional photovoltaic microinverters configuration, a single PV module is connected to the grid through two converter stages: a step-up dc-dc stage and a step-down dc-ac stage. In the first stage, a high frequency transformer is generally used to achieve the high step-up voltage ratio conversion to a voltage above the grid peak value, reducing the converter efficiency while increasing its size. More recently single-stage step-up dc-ac configurations have been proposed to overcome these problems. However, they increase control complexity, and efficiency remains an issue due to the high step-up ratio required and being a single stage. Therefore, a two-stage configuration consisting of two consecutive step-up converters is proposed in this paper. With this scheme, it is possible to distribute the elevation effort to improve the global efficiency of the PV microinverter. The proposed topology merges a traditional boost dc-dc converter for the first stage, like in the conventional configuration, but operating with a below-grid-peak-voltage dc-link voltage. A step-up inverter is used for the second stage; it is composed of two boost converters connected in differential mode (dual boost inverter). Simulation results are provided to validate the proposed configuration.
keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Topology;DC-DC power converters;Inductors;Capacitors;Reactive power;Microinverter;photovoltaic energy;step-up inverter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913265&isnumber=7912587

B. Srbinovski, G. Conte, A. P. Morrison, P. Leahy and E. Popovici, "ECO: An IoT platform for wireless data collection, energy control and optimization of a miniaturized wind turbine cluster: Power analysis and battery life estimation of IoT platform," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 412-417.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913266
Abstract: An 8×8 (64) Internet of Things (IoT) wind farm platform is built using miniaturized wind turbines with wireless connectivity. The farm is being deployed on the south east coast of Ireland to remotely collect data for offline evaluation of a data driven wind turbine power output model and study aerodynamic interactions between turbines within the farm. The cluster is build such that a range of different downwind distances (between the turbines) can be tested with minimum rearrangement effort. To remotely collect data for an offline evaluation of wind turbine power models, each turbine within the farm is equipped with an IoT platform. Each of the 64 turbines simultaneously will report its voltage output measured across a load resistor. An ultrasonic wind sensor equipped with the same IoT platform will measure the wind speed and wind direction necessary for the offline wind turbine power model evaluation. In this work we present an energy analysis for the IoT platform (node) based on lab power measurements conducted while running firmware that will be used on the deployment site. The work emphasizes the potential of using an inexpensive wireless, battery powered, IoT node for remote data collection in preference to a wired solution using a data-logger that has limited storage that cannot be remotely accessed.
keywords: {Wind turbines;Voltage measurement;Wireless sensor networks;Wireless communication;Wireless fidelity;Synchronization;Data models;data collection;energy analysis;Internet of Things;Internet of Energy/Wind Turbines;power characterization;renewable energy;study platform;time syncronization of IoT nodes wind turbine;windfarm},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913266&isnumber=7912587

E. Torres, P. Ponce and A. Molina, "Electromagnetic induction generator toward energy harvesting for dynamic systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 418-422.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913267
Abstract: Energy harvesting has become an alternative form of power generation over the last few years. The mechanical force induced by wind, water, vibrations using piezoelectric materials, and even the waves of the sea, are examples of energy harvesting methods. However, electromagnetic induction is an especially promising means of harvesting energy, as it is cheap, only coils and magnets being needed for it to function. The effectiveness of the design depends on the architecture of the device, while the quantity of energy harvested depends on the lifetime of the magnets and on the continuation of the induced mechanical force. An easy-to-assemble but effective prototype is presented in support of electromagnetic power harvesting. Systems with piezoelectric materials and research on electromagnetic induction are outlined, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of the prototype.
keywords: {Coils;Magnetic flux;Magnetic fields;Force;Permanent magnets;Electromagnetics;Generators;energy harvesting;piezoelectric materials;electromagnetic induction;dynamic systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913267&isnumber=7912587

A. Dehghanzadeh, G. Farahani, H. Vahedi and K. Al-Haddad, "Explicit double-exponential modeling methods for photovoltaic cells," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 423-428.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913268
Abstract: This paper presents a review on double-diode explicit expressions for current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of photovoltaic (PV) cells. The significance of PV cell modeling is discussed and the shortcomings of the conventional implicit models are examined. The explicit models are favorable for real time operation during designing and debugging process for efficiency enhancement of PV systems. This paper supports or contradicts some reported methods in the literature for their capability to recreate I-V behavior of common industrial PV cells. Moreover, it would comprehensively address confusion among students and PV engineers with regard to the selection of appropriate model for repeated simulations.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Resistance;Integrated circuit modeling;P-n junctions;Biological system modeling;Computational modeling;Equivalent circuits;photovoltaic (PV) cell;double-diode model;explicit model;diode ideality factor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913268&isnumber=7912587

M. Naresh and R. K. Tripathi, "Flux coupling type superconducting fault current limiter in a transmission and wind energy system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 429-433.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913269
Abstract: Now a days, Superconducting fault current limiter (SFCL) is emerged as one of the most accomplished fault current limiter (FCL) In this Paper, a flux coupling type SFCL is designed for limiting the fault current in isolated wind turbine generation system. The proposed Resistive and flux Coupling based super conducting fault current limiters have improved performance in terms of current limitation, higher reliability and lifetime and reduced material requirement. Superconducting fault current limiter (SFCL) appears as an excellent FCL which tends to satisfy above features. The whole research work and analysis has been carried out in MATLAB/SIMULINK environment for isolated wind energy system.
keywords: {Couplings;Fault currents;Fault current limiters;Wind turbines;Superconducting coils;Limiting;Fault current limiter;Flux coupling SFCL;Wind;Resistive SFCL;Superconducting fault current limiter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913269&isnumber=7912587

C. Andalib-Bin-Karim, X. Liang and H. -U. A. Chowdhury, "Generation reliability assessment of stand-alone hybrid power system — A case study," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 434-439.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913270
Abstract: Many rural communities are not able to access the main power grid supply due to high cost associated with grid extension. The stand-alone renewable energy based hybrid power system is a significant adaptation to cope with increasing power demand along with environmental consideration in rural communities. In such a system, determining the correct size and capacity of renewable generating units to supply continuous and reliable electricity is of great importance. For this purpose, the reliability of a standalone renewable energy based hybrid generation system is evaluated in this paper to meet the load demand of a residential building located in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador (NL), Canada. A probabilistic reliability evaluation approach, Monte Carlo simulation technique is adopted to compute the reliability index, Loss of Load Probability (LOLP) utilizing the generation models, renewable resources data and load demand data for a whole year. The main advantage of this technique over the deterministic approaches is its ability to provide quantitative reliability assessment taking the actual system behavior into consideration. The system reliability is evaluated based on LOLP values, which are computed considering different combinations of renewable energy mixtures in the generation system. In this paper, three dominant renewable energy resources, solar, wind and hydro, are taken into consideration, and the most reliable energy mixture is determined. Furthermore, system reliability is assessed considering variation in total generation capacity. This type of analyses will be useful for the system designers to determine total capacity and optimum sizing of the system before installation.
keywords: {Reliability;Power system reliability;Renewable energy sources;Monte Carlo methods;Wind speed;Hybrid power systems;Generators;Hybrid power system;Monte Carlo simulation;renewable energy;reliability assessment},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913270&isnumber=7912587

P. K. Ray, S. Mishra, G. H. Beng and S. K. Kollimalla, "Improvement of power quality using an average model of a new hybrid PV-DSTATCOM," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 440-445.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913271
Abstract: This paper presents a step by step modeling of a new improved hybrid photovoltaic fed distributed static compensator (PV-DSTATCOM) in a-b-c reference frame. Further the system average model is transformed to orthogonal synchronous (d-q) reference frame. The new improved PV-DSTATCOM is used to compensate the current distortion and reactive power, generated by a non-linear three phase bridge uncontrolled rectifier with ohmic-inductive load. For perfect harmonic compensation (PHC) and unit power factor (UPF) a multi-loop control scheme is employed in which the inner controller ensures the current harmonic and reactive power compensation, and the outer controller takes care of the voltage regulation at the dc side of PV-DSTATCOM. The presented system is implemented using MATLAB/Simulink tool and the performance is discussed through obtained simulation results. Furthermore an experimental setup is developed and the efficacy of the system is verified under practical limitations. Both the simulation and experimental results confirm the effectiveness of the presented system under ideal and distorted supply voltage.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Reactive power;Load modeling;Simulation;Photovoltaic fed distributed static compensator;harmonic elemination;synchronous reference frame;average modeling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913271&isnumber=7912587

A. Sandali and A. Cheriti, "New adapted forms of P-V optimal slope MPPT for a better grid connected PV system integration," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 446-451.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913272
Abstract: The work presented in this paper describes an improvement of a P-V optimal slope MPPT technique. To achieve this improvement, all the degrees of freedom of the inverter control are exploited. Two forms are then established. Modeling and design of a PV power plant using these improved forms are performed. The results are validated by simulation in the Matlab-Simulink environment.
keywords: {Inverters;Power generation;Production;Mathematical model;Reactive power;Power system stability;Generators;optimal slope MPPT;PV integration;loadability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913272&isnumber=7912587

Y. Boussairi, A. Abouloifa, A. Hamdoun, C. Aouadi, I. Lachkar and F. Giri, "Nonlinear control of permanent magnet synchronous generator grid-connected applied to wind energy conversion system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 452-457.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913273
Abstract: This paper presents the modeling and control of wind system using the permanent magnet synchronous generator (PMSG) connected with the grid via a three phase converter AC/DC/AC through LCL filter. The objectives of the control are: (i) forcing the generator speed to track a varying reference signal, (ii) assuring a satisfactory power correction (PFC) respecting to the power supply grid, (iii) regulating the DC Link voltage at a constant value. The mathematical modeling of the whole system in d-q frame and its state space equation are established to simplify the proposed control, thereafter a nonlinear backstepping approach is used in this work to achieve the objectives indicated above. The performance of the proposed approach is evaluated based on the various simulations results carried out under Matlab/Simulink/Simpower software.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Voltage control;Generators;Backstepping;Asymptotic stability;Permanent magnets;Lyapunov methods},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913273&isnumber=7912587

C. D. Fuentes, H. Renaudineau, S. Kouro and S. Bernet, "Power density driven design methodology of power converters for photovoltaic applications," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 458-463.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913274
Abstract: Considering the ongoing paradigm shift of large scale solar plants from central inverters to multistring inverters, new associated logistic requirements have highlighted the need to lower the weight of power converters without compromising efficiency and reliability. To meet this need, Silicon carbide based semiconductors are considered an enabling technology as they allow weight reduction in power converters while improving efficiency thanks to the ability to switch faster with lower losses, alongside with outstanding thermal characteristics. Nonetheless, although it is well known that the use of Silicon carbide improves converters power density, it is not an easy task to assess or estimate the reduction quantitatively. To tackle this problem, a design methodology considering grid connected PV converters, and with special focus on weight, efficiency and rated power is presented. Simulations have been programmed in Matlab and the corresponding results are provided.
keywords: {Switches;Harmonic analysis;Inverters;Switching loss;Standards;Inductors;Estimation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913274&isnumber=7912587

A. Ahadi, S. E. Reza and X. Liang, "Probabilistic reliability evaluation for power systems with high penetration of renewable power generation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 464-468.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913275
Abstract: In this paper, a probabilistic analytical approach for reliability evaluation of power systems with high penetration of wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) renewable power generation is presented. Due to intermittent nature of wind and solar power, the traditional deterministic method cannot properly address such uncertainties, probabilistic methods need to be utilized. In this paper, the loss of load method, one of the most effective probabilistic analytical methods, is adopted. The generation model is represented by the capacity outage probability table (COPT). The load model is presented by the load duration curve (LDC). Both generation and load models are used to obtain the system reliability considering wind and PV sources with certain forced outage rate (FOR). Simulation results are obtained using MATLAB. It is found that renewable energy sources can significantly improve the system reliability, but not as good as conventional power generators with the same rated capacity due to the actual reduced capacity value of renewable energy sources caused by intermittency. This analytical analysis is useful for the power system planner to quantify reliability improvements by installing grid-connected hybrid renewable power generation.
keywords: {Reliability;Power system reliability;Load modeling;Mathematical model;Renewable energy sources;Power generation;Probabilistic logic;Probabilistic planning;Generation Reliability evaluation;Analytical methods;Wind Power;Photovoltaic (PV) Power},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913275&isnumber=7912587

M. H. Albadi, A. S. Al-Busaidi and E. F. El-Saadany, "Using PHES to facilitate wind power integration in isolated systems — Case study," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 469-474.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913276
Abstract: Currently, the contribution of renewable energy in isolated power systems are not fully exploited. The intermittent nature of renewable energy resources limits renewable energy contribution in electricity supply mix. This paper presents an overview of wind power intermittency and potential solutions. A case study about a combined wind Pumped Hydro Energy Storage (PHES) power plant in an isolated power system is presented. The study demonstrates that combined wind-PHES is economically attractive compared with other fossil fuel options.
keywords: {Energy storage;Renewable energy sources;Wind power generation;Power system stability;Wind turbines;Wind speed;Wind energy;Wind Power;Pumped Hydro Energy Storage;Technoeconomic Evaluation;Isolated System},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913276&isnumber=7912587

"Energy storage," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 475-476.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913277
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913277&isnumber=7912587

S. K. Kollimalla, A. Ukil, H. B. Gooi, N. K. Swami Naidu, U. Manandhar and K. Chaudhari, "Application of two stage rate limit control for different operating modes of battery," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 478-483.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913278
Abstract: The present work deals with the application of two stage rate limit control for battery energy storage system under different operating modes. Energy storage systems are playing very important role in renewable power systems and microgrids. Depending on the nature of power requirement, utilization of multiple energy storage units with distinguished characteristics in terms of power and energy density is quite common in microgrids. Batteries are one of the most commonly used energy storage systems in microgrids, to support slow transients or steady state load demands. The power charge/discharge rates affects the stress levels in the battery, which in turn affects the battery life span; and its power pattern affects stored/discharge energy from the battery, which in turn affects the state of charge (SOC) of the battery. Therefore, to optimize the charge/discharge rates a two stage rate limit control scheme is proposed, and its application for different operating modes is discussed in this paper. This control scheme is verified in OPAL-RT by creating real-time control hardware in loop (CHIL) with dSPACE.
keywords: {Batteries;Supercapacitors;State of charge;Power demand;Transient analysis;Linear programming;Battery;Energy storage system;Hybrid energy storage system;Rate-limit control;State of charge;Supercapacitor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913278&isnumber=7912587

S. Shili, A. Sari, A. Hijazi and P. Venet, "Online lithium-ion batteries health monitoring using balancing circuits," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 484-488.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913279
Abstract: In this paper, an original online technique for the state of health monitoring of lithium-ion batteries energy storage systems is proposed. The aging of lithium-ion batteries is represented by the degradation of their internal parameters as the decrease of the capacitance and the increase of the Equivalent Series Resistance (ESR). This degradation is continuous over aging until reaching the storage system failure criteria. Thus, the original online technique is based on tracking the ESR representing the battery aging. The proposed approach uses a suitable balancing circuit connected to the terminal of the storage element to extract its actual parameter. The information about this actual parameter makes the state of health monitoring possible. The analysis is performed using simulation with realistic electrical model to demonstrate and validate the effectiveness and the accuracy of the proposed new approach.
keywords: {Decision support systems;Batteries;Impedance;Aging;Battery management systems;Resistance;Aging;Battery;Balancing Circuit;Battery Management System (BMS);Equivalent Series Resistance (ESR);Impedance characteristic;State Of Health (SOH)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913279&isnumber=7912587

"Transportation electrification and vehicle systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 489-490.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913280
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913280&isnumber=7912587

J. M. Ambarak, H. Ying, F. Syed and D. Filev, "A neural network for predicting unintentional lane departures," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 492-497.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913281
Abstract: Unintended lane departure accidents are due to driver's inattention, incapacitation, and drowsiness. Lane departure warning systems have been developed to enhance traffic safety by predicting/detecting driving situation and alerting drivers to avoid or mitigate traffic accidents. This paper explores effectiveness of a three-layer perceptron neural network in predicting an unintentional lane departure, which to the best of our knowledge has not been reported in the literature. This study used driver experiment data generated by VIRTTEX, a hydraulically powered 6-degrees-of-freedom moving base driving simulator at Ford Motor Company. The experimental data represented 16 drowsy drivers who drove a simulated 2000 Volvo S80 (three hours per driver), which consisted of a total of 3,508 lane departure occurrences. Two-third of the lane departures were randomly selected to generate training examples for the network (82,040 examples for a 0.2-second prediction horizon and 171,112 for a 0.5-second horizon). The number of hidden neurons as well as the input vehicle variables were optimized experimentally through the training process. The optimized network was then used to predict lane departure by processing the entire driving time series of the 16 drivers one by one after all the training data was removed from the time series. The network made a prediction at each sampling moment of the time series and there were over 6.3 million predictions. The overall recall and precision of the optimized network for the 0.2-second horizon were 99.74% and 99.66%, respectively, which degraded to 99.23% and 85.49%, respectively, when the horizon increased to 0.5 s.
keywords: {Vehicles;Training;Roads;Time series analysis;Biological neural networks;Alarm systems;Unintentional lane departure;prediction;neural network},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913281&isnumber=7912587

A. J. Mills and R. W. Ashton, "Adaptive, sparse, and multi-rate LQR control of an MVDC shipboard power system with constant power loads," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 498-503.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913282
Abstract: The US Navy is pursuing development of all-electric warships. The future all-electric warship is expected to utilize medium-voltage DC (MVDC) main distribution to supply several load zones. The load zones will convert the MVDC power to lower voltage for use by local loads as well as contain local energy storage for casualty back-up power. A majority, if not totality of loads are expected to exhibit constant-power load (CPL) behavior. Voltage instabilities introduced by CPLs and methods to address the problem in multi-machine MVDC systems are reviewed. This paper presents an LQR based, centralized, control scheme to regulate MVDC distribution bus voltage as well as the low-voltage DC (LVDC) service buses through coordinated use of low-bandwidth MVDC voltage sources and high-bandwidth, low-voltage currents sourced from the local energy storage devices. A sparse-feedback, multi-rate LQR controller (LQR-SM) is designed and implemented in MATLAB software using a hypothetical multi-machine, multi-zone shipboard MVDC electric distribution system with CPLs and energy storage devices. The presented control scheme is able to combine and coordinate all available control inputs to effectively regulate MVDC and LVDC buses in the system while allowing for design flexibility not available through existing control schemes.
keywords: {Load modeling;DC-DC power converters;Energy storage;Voltage control;Integrated circuit modeling;Medium voltage;Low voltage;MVDC;constant power load (CPL);hybrid energy storage system (HESS);linear quadratic regulator (LQR);adaptive;non-linear;all-electric ships},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913282&isnumber=7912587

G. Jinhao, W. Hui, W. Tengxin and W. Yubin, "An integrated topology for on-board charger and driven of electric vehicle," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 504-508.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913283
Abstract: This paper presents an integrated topology for on-board charger and driven of electric vehicle. Aiming at the existing issues of electric vehicle, the topology incorporates a charging circuit and a motor driven circuit to optimize the circuit structure, to reduce the circuit size and body weight, and to improve utilization elements. Consist of a dual-active bridge converter(DAB) and a three-phase full-bridge inverter, the topology has two operating modes, which are shifted by mechanical switches. One is charging mode using constant voltage control after constant current control and the other is driving mode using id = 0 control. Simulation based on Matlab/SIMULINK verifies the correctness and feasibility of the topology.
keywords: {Topology;Batteries;Electric vehicles;Switches;Space vector pulse width modulation;State of charge;Voltage control;Electric vehicle;Integrated topology;Dual-active bridge converter (DAB);Three-phase full-bridge inverter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913283&isnumber=7912587

D. Ronanki and S. S. Williamson, "Comparative analysis of DITC and DTFC of switched reluctance motor for EV applications," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 509-514.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913284
Abstract: Switched Reluctance Motor (SRM) presents simple construction, high starting torque, wide speed range, high efficiency and high reliability which are appropriate for an Electric Vehicle (EV) drive system. However, SRM has some issues such as high torque ripple, acoustic noise, vibration due to non-linearities, and require a position sensor for control. The purpose of this paper is to compare two different control techniques and to find which method can provide better performance in terms of controllability and efficiency. The first technique is Direct Instantaneous Torque Control (DITC), i.e only torque is controlled with in the hysteresis band. The second technique is Direct Torque and Flux Control (DTFC), i.e both torque as well as stator flux vector is controlled in the hysteresis band. Principles of both these methods are discussed in detail. The performance analysis of these methods for 6/4 SRM are carried out and validated from simulation results. Conclusions are drawn from the results and the advantages and drawbacks of each method are addressed.
keywords: {Torque;Reluctance motors;Stators;Acoustic noise;Vibrations;Couplings;Hysteresis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913284&isnumber=7912587

R. Zgheib, I. Kamwa and K. Al-Haddad, "Comparison between isolated and non-isolated DC/DC converters for bidirectional EV chargers," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 515-520.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913285
Abstract: This paper compares a non-isolated DC/DC converter (interleaved Buck/Boost) and an isolated converter (Dual Active Bridge) in a bidirectional charging application for Electric Vehicles. Both converters are modeled, controlled using small-signal models, and their operation in several modes is simulated and then compared. The results of the comparison using several criteria related to automotive applications are shown and discussed.
keywords: {Batteries;Bridge circuits;Load flow;Voltage control;Standards;Control systems;V2G;battery charging;small-signal model;galvanic isolation;PI control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913285&isnumber=7912587

G. Shirkoohi and A. Jenkins, "Computation of rectifier transformers employed in railway networks," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 521-526.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7913286
Abstract: Many rail transport providers operate and maintain a medium voltage distribution network providing power to trains, signalling equipment and stations. Transformers form an important part of the distribution network stepping voltage up and down. Rectifier transformers are used to provide DC for traction, usually stepping down from medium voltage levels. Mineral oil is essential for optimised performance of large transformers, providing the much needed cooling at high power operation and elevated core and winding temperatures. A representative rectifier transformer has been modelled for a realistic analysis of the 3D model constructed using exact manufacturer's data for the geometry and coil arrangements. The results are seen to be in good agreement with the actual tests carried out during the commissioning of the transformer.
keywords: {Power transformer insulation;Oil insulation;Windings;Rectifiers;Oils;Circuit breakers;Transformer cores;Rectifier transformer;rail transport;Transformer characteristics;Oil filled transformer},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7913286&isnumber=7912587

B. Xu, H. Wang, H. Sun and Y. Wang, "Design of a bidirectional power converter for charging pile based on V2G," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 527-531.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915413
Abstract: With the development of electric vehicle and smart grid, charging piles in the future are required to realize the function of Vehicle-to-Grid, which means it can charge and discharge the power battery of stationary electric vehicles. A bidirectional power converter is designed for the V2G charging piles in this paper. First a two stage topology is applied to the converter. Three-phase bridge converter is employed in the preceding stage of AC-DC, and dual active bridge converter is employed in the succeeding stage of DC-DC. Then corresponding control strategy based on such topology is proposed to meet the demand of bidirectional power flow. Double closed-loop and PQ control is adopted in the AC-DC converter. And single-phase-shift control is adopted in the DC-DC converter. Finally, simulations combining the mentioned converter with battery generic model verify the design that the converter for charging pile can meet the requirements of bidirectional power flowing and charging or discharging of the battery.
keywords: {charging pile;Vehicle-to-Grid;AC-DC converter;dual active bridge;lithium-ion battery pack},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915413&isnumber=7912587

B. V. R. Kumar and K. Sivakumar, "Design of a new switched-stator BLDC drive to improve the energy efficiency of an electric vehicle," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 532-537.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915414
Abstract: A technique of switched stator is employed in a radial Flux BLDC motor to improve the energy efficiency of an electric vehicle. Electric vehicle (EV) certainly, shall be a replacement to the gasoline engine vehicles in near future considering environment protection inadequacy of fuels. This concept is arrived for in wheel direct drive for a two wheeler which doesn't have any transmission mechanism. The battery-drive system should be highly efficient to make the EV to overcome its speed, load and mileage limitations. The technique of switched stator BLDC motor is arrived to improve the efficiency of battery by switching the outer and inner stator of BLDC motor which are designed with different torque/back-emf constants. This paper presents the configuration of vehicle drive train, architecture of Switched stator-BLDC (SS-BLDC) motor and its control strategy to achieve the required objectives. Simulation model of the total electric propulsion is built and analysis carried out by taking a standard driving schedule. Important performance indices of vehicle are derived and the results are very encouraging. The obtained results have shown an increase of 38% in mileage of vehicle for given driving schedule with proposed technique.
keywords: {Batteries;Mathematical model;Electric vehicles;Stator windings;Switches;Wheels;Electric vehicle;Energy efficiency;Switched Stator BLDC motor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915414&isnumber=7912587

V. Ravikiran, R. K. Keshri and M. M. Santos, "Inductive characteristics of asymmetrical coils for wireless power transfer," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 538-542.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915415
Abstract: Inductive wireless power transfer (WPT) is being explored as a future solution for charging the electric vehicles. Coil coupling is the critical issue in WPT in which transmitting coil (TC) is buried under the ground and receiving coil (RC) is on the chassis of vehicle. In this paper cases of asymmetrical circular, spiral, and rectangular coils are considered for coupling. COMSOL Finite element analysis (FEA) is used to determine and comment on the inductive parameters with the base of analytics. It also includes discussion on parametric variations like inner diameter, coil gap distance, different number of turns on TC and RC. The outcomes are compared for to select coil structure for charging the electric vehicle.
keywords: {Coils;Spirals;Couplings;Wires;Inductance;Biological system modeling;Ferrites;Wireless power transfer;coil coupling;inductive parameters;electric vehicle charging},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915415&isnumber=7912587

A. Abuaish and M. Kazerani, "Single-phase bidirectional integrated onboard battery charger for EVs featuring a battery-supercapacitor hybrid energy storage system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 543-548.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915416
Abstract: Hybridization of the homogeneous battery-only energy storage system (ESS) with supercapacitor (SC) has proved to be an effective solution for extending the battery lifetime and increasing the power capability of the ESS [1, 2]. However, the addition of the SC and associated DC/DC converter will increase the system weight and cost, thus nullifying the monetary gain resulting from the extension of battery lifetime. Consequently, system design needs to be revamped, whereby a single device is used to perform more than one function to reduce the overall cost. This paper presents a bidirectional integrated onboard battery charger scheme for EVs featuring a battery-supercapacitor Hybrid ESS (HESS). The integrated charger utilizes the traction motor inverter and the DC/DC converter of HESS to realize the AC/DC and DC/DC conversion stages of a standard onboard charger. As a result, the need for a standalone onboard charger is eliminated, yielding significant cost reduction and promoting the adoption of the battery-supercapacitor HESS in EVs.
keywords: {Batteries;Topology;Battery chargers;Traction motors;Inverters;AC-DC power converters;Mechanical power transmission},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915416&isnumber=7912587

F. Ortenzi, S. Orchi and G. Pede, "Technical and economical evalutation of hybrid flash-charging stations for electric public transport," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 549-554.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915417
Abstract: Object of this paper is the feasibility study, technical and economic, of an electric public transport service where fast charge stations are equipped with EES composed by batteries and/or super-capacitor, with relative power electronics, management and control, to improve the technical-economical dimensioning, for different possible operating conditions. To this purpose, referring to a real case, a simulator of the charging station was made, inclusive of the storage subsystems (Li-ion battery model and supercapacitors model), the interface towards the network (AC / DC converter), the interface to the vehicle (DC / DC converter, of different types). For the above service, which provides, in certain moments of the day the simultaneous presence at the terminal for all buses, were identified two types of charging station: one at the terminal and a second one to be placed in some of the bus stops. The final' goal is optimizing, for both cases, the storage system necessary to guarantee the charging with a smoother, more levelled supply from the network.
keywords: {Supercapacitors;Charging stations;Economics;Mechanical power transmission;AC-DC power converters;fast-charging station;eletric bus;supercapacitors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915417&isnumber=7912587

"Power systems and the smart grid," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 555-556.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915418
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915418&isnumber=7912587

C. Ibrahim, I. Mougharbel, N. A. Daher, H. Y. Kanaan, M. Saad and S. Georges, "A novel generic architecture for the implementation of demand response programs in a smart grid," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 558-563.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915419
Abstract: Nowadays, smart grid for electrical power distribution is considered as one of the most important infrastructures enabling the consumer to interact with other stakeholders to reach technical and economic objectives. This interactivity is performed through the concept of agreements that are signed between different involved actors (utility operators, electrical energy producers, consumers, electrical energy market traders, brokers...). These agreements are of the form of what is called Demand Response Programs (DRPs) which are already greatly diversified. In case of different DRPs implemented over the same network without any coordination, the network stability may get degraded rather than improved. Therefore, in order to make coordination easy to be realized, DRPs implementations based on a generic architecture become a must. In this paper, a novel generic architecture is presented. It is validated first by means of matching existing architectures with the suggested one and second by identifying some of the architecture components while implementing a DRP based on a real case study.
keywords: {Predictive models;Data models;Numerical models;Data acquisition;Real-time systems;Optimization;Computer architecture},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915419&isnumber=7912587

S. Hosseini, S. Kelouwani, K. Agbossou, A. Cardenas and N. Henao, "A semi-synthetic dataset development tool for household energy consumption analysis," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 564-569.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915420
Abstract: Home Energy Management System (HEMS) is acknowledged as a promised approach to explore household appliances dynamic energy usage. The availability of an appropriate dataset is indispensable to evaluate the performance of HEMS operations in the designing phase. In this paper, we develop a tool capable of generating long-term semi-synthetic data to avoid deficiency of available datasets particularly, the lack of the major appliances measurements and non-electric information. Accordingly, a simple household with primary appliances located in two-main zones is simulated. The paper utilizes a statistical analysis of real-world data to create probabilistic models of appliances and consequently, produce time-extended stochastic power profiles. Afterward, a simulation structure is developed to generate the power consumption profiles of major appliances consisting of Electrical Space Heaters (ESH) and Electrical Water Heaters (EWH). In order to achieve its ambition, this study executes a post-processing practice to create on/off power profiles of these appliances using their models. The results show that the proposed tool can be exploited for different HEMS scenarios.
keywords: {Home appliances;Buildings;Schedules;Water heating;Load modeling;Data models;Tools},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915420&isnumber=7912587

H. A. Seiari, A. A. Hussein and H. H. Zeineldin, "An adaptive P-f droop approach for micro-grid transition detection," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 570-574.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915421
Abstract: Islanding detection methods have been proposed for inverter based distributed generation (DG) with grid connected capability only. Micro-grids are composed of DGs that are capable of operating in two modes: grid connected and islanded. This paper introduces and proposes the concept of micro-grid transition detection where the status of the micro-grid is detected based on adaptively modifying the droop slope. The droop coefficient is chosen such that the micro-grid is stable while grid connected, but unstable as soon as an islanded micro-grid operation is initiated. The droop coefficient is adaptively modified, once the micro-grid shifts from grid connected to islanded operation, to stabilize the micro-grid for the islanded mode of operation. The proposed micro-grid transition detection method is tested on a micro-grid equipped with inverter based DGs controlled using the droop approach.
keywords: {Reactive power;Resonant frequency;Inverters;Threshold voltage;Islanding;Loading;Distributed power generation;Distributed Generators;Inverters;Islanding Detection;Micro-grids},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915421&isnumber=7912587

V. Durvasulu, T. M. Hansen and R. Tonkoski, "Classification of generators participating in the bulk-power market," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 575-579.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915422
Abstract: Economic studies in power systems have gained more importance post deregulation. The number of generators participating in the power market have significantly increased over the past years. Smart grids are now enabling distributed generation resources to also participate in the power market. Many economic studies conducted on power system networks utilize legacy quadratic cost curves which are based on very old coal-fired plants. This paper proposes a method to obtain generator cost curves that reflect realistic prices of a bulk power market. Cost curves are obtained from real market data for different generator types (e.g., base, peak) using k-Means clustering. The cost curves are used on the IEEE 24-bus test system to show that realistic locational marginal prices are obtained that emulate the real market data.
keywords: {Generators;Power systems;Power markets;Clustering algorithms;ISO;Real-time systems;generator taxonomy;k-Means clustering;quadratic cost curves},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915422&isnumber=7912587

E. Yasoubi, M. Sedighizadeh and A. Siadatan, "Coordinated design of PSS and TCSC controllers using colonal selection algorithm for stability enhancement of dynamical power system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 580-585.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915423
Abstract: This paper deals with the simultaneous application of thyristor controlled series capacitor based damping controller and power system stabilizer for stability improvement of dynamic power system. The Colonal selection algorithm is used to develop the control strategy for thyristor controlled series capacitor based damping controller and power system stabilizer. The new approach employs time-domain simulation based objective functions simultaneously to improve the optimization convergence rate in Colonal selection algorithm. The comparison analysis between conventional and smart control strategies based controllers is demonstrated. Single machine infinite bus system is tested under various operating conditions and disturbances to show the effectiveness of proposed control schemes. The results of simulations for a single machine infinite bus (SMIB) system equipped with the proposed PSS and TCSC controllers confirm that the new approach is effective in enhancing the system stability.
keywords: {Thyristors;Power system stability;Power capacitors;Algorithm design and analysis;Damping;Stability analysis;Torque;Power System Stabilizer (PSS);Flexible Alternative Current Transmission System (FACTS);Small signal stability;Colonal Selection Algorithm (COLONALG)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915423&isnumber=7912587

K. Mahmud, S. Morsalin, M. J. Hossain and G. E. Town, "Domestic peak-load management including vehicle-to-grid and battery storage unit using an artificial neural network," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 586-591.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915424
Abstract: Controlled charging and discharge of electric vehicles (EVs) in distributed power systems can reduce the peak demand on the grid. This paper presents an energy management strategy (EMS) using an artificial neural network to shave the domestic peak grid load by the coordinated response of distributed energy resource (DER) units including photovoltaic (PV) systems, V2G (vehicle to grid)-capable EVs, and battery energy storage systems (BESS). The developed EMS is implemented on a test system including 15 houses and the realistic load pattern of California, U.S. From the simulation results for this network it is found that an artificial-neural-network controller can effectively coordinate the system to reshape the load curve and shave the domestic peak loading by up to 77%.
keywords: {Batteries;Artificial neural networks;Power generation;Discharges (electric);Training;State of charge;artificial neural network;demand management;peak-load management;peak shave},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915424&isnumber=7912587

A. M. Tahboub, S. Alaraifi and M. S. Elmoursi, "Dynamic VAR planning for rotor-angle and short-term voltage stability enhancement," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 592-596.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915425
Abstract: In the short-term timescale, separation between load-driven and generator-driven stability problems is rarely well-defined. Allocation of VSC-based VAR compensation, such as STATCOM, has the ability to boost system voltages in the fault-on condition, thus reducing generator power swing, in addition to circumventing delayed voltage recovery upon fault clearing, thereby reducing the risk of induction motor stalling. This paper proposes a multi-objective, hybrid static/dynamic VAR planning strategy incorporating distinct rotor angle and voltage stability indices found through time-domain simulations of full-order system models. The proposed method utilizes parallel high performance computing (HPC) capabilities combined with a genetic algorithm (GA) and is applied on the New England 39-bus system with assumed high penetration of induction machines. The study demonstrates that compared to voltage stability enhancement, improvement of rotor-angle stability through shunt dynamic VAR requires substantial additional capacity, the cost of which can be reduced using hybrid static/dynamic installations.
keywords: {Stability criteria;Power system stability;Reactive power;Automatic voltage control;Indexes;Power system dynamics;Dynamic VAR planning;multi-objective optimization;genetic algorithm;high performance computing;voltage stability;rotor angle stability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915425&isnumber=7912587

N. A. El-Taweel and H. E. Farag, "Integration of step voltage regulators in islanded microgrids," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 597-602.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915426
Abstract: Step voltage regulators (SVRs) are the workhorses of existing distribution feeders, where they provide appropriate voltage control to meet the customer demands. Given the special features and operation characteristics of islanded microgrids (IMGs), the role of SVRs during the operation of distribution networks in islanded mode has not been well investigated, yet. The first step to conduct such investigation is to incorporate the model of SVRs in the power flow studies of IMGs. As such, this paper presents the incorporation of SVRs in a generic droop-based three-phase power flow algorithm of IMGs. The paper also studies the interferences between the local controllers of SVRs and droop-controlled distributed generation units to regulate the voltage in IMGs at different operating conditions.
keywords: {Decision support systems;Xenon;Distributed Generation;Droop Control;Islanded Microgrids;Step Voltage Regulator},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915426&isnumber=7912587

A. A. Eajal, E. F. El-Saadany and K. Ponnambalam, "Optimal power flow for converter-dominated AC/DC hybrid microgrids," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 603-608.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915427
Abstract: This paper presents a new optimal power flow (OPF) formulation based on loadability maximization for islanded converter-dominated AC/DC hybrid microgrids. Hybridizing AC and DC at the distribution level brings the merits of AC and DC together as a valuable future layout for AC and DC technologies. Nevertheless, most recent AC/DC distributed resources and loads are converter-based resulting in low inertia. Further, the future distribution systems will allow investors and customers to plug their energy resources in and out. Such systems with a high penetration of converters and plug-and-play capability will have their own operational philosophy. During islanding in particular, loadability maximization is more pronounced due to the limited resources and being susceptible to any sudden and slow load/supply variations. Thus, the target of the system operator might be to increase the system steady-state stability margin by running OPF. In this work, the AC/DC OPF problem is formulated as a nonlinear constrained optimization problem, and solved by Interior Point method. The newly formulated OPF algorithm is tested on a modified 38-bus AC/DC hybrid microgrid. The developed AC/DC OPF can be a powerful tool for system planners and operators to explore the technical and economic challenges related to hybridizing the AC distribution systems.
keywords: {Integrated circuits;Reactive power;Microgrids;Hybrid power systems;Frequency measurement;Mathematical model;Loading;AC/DC hybrid;converter;loadability maximization;microgrid;optimal power flow},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915427&isnumber=7912587

P. Jafary et al., "Secure layer 2 tunneling over IP for GOOSE-based logic selectivity," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 609-614.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915428
Abstract: Logic Selectivity immensely reduces both number of outages and their duration in the distribution network. IEC 61850 can be applied for standard implementing of Logic Selectivity in which Generic Object Oriented Substation Events (GOOSE) messages should be exchanged between intelligent field devices over the Internet. However, information security and automation requirements must be noted in order to ensure secure and accurate operation of Logic Selectivity. This paper describes lab setups for analyzing functional and non-functional characteristics of GOOSE-based Logic Selectivity. Layer 2 tunneling over IPsec is proposed for GOOSE communication over 4G Internet. Data integrity and confidentiality are achieved via IPsec in Transport mode. Furthermore, communication impact on Logic Selectivity performance are investigated by the software tool measuring communication network quality.
keywords: {Circuit breakers;Substations;Circuit faults;Tunneling;Internet;Automation;Testing;distribution automation security;IEC61850;layer 2 tunneling over IPsec;logic selectivity},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915428&isnumber=7912587

P. Jafary, S. Repo, J. Seppälä and H. Koivisto, "Security and reliability analysis of a use case in smart grid substation automation systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 615-620.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915429
Abstract: Substation automation systems provide high level of automation for both substation and distribution network. Communication in modern substation automation systems is based on Ethernet, TCP/IP and interoperable protocols within standard network infrastructure. Communication security and reliability become important and must be considered to ensure correct operation of substation automation systems. This paper presents an experimental lab setup in which IEC6180 standard is applied for substation communication. Designing substation LAN with Parallel Redundancy Protocol and programming proxy server supporting Transport Layer Security are proposed for reliability and security of the substation data network, respectively. Also, substation remote communication security is evaluated by testing two communication standards (IEC60870-5-104 and OPC UA) and two types of VPN: PPTP and IPsec. Test results are compared and the most secure solution is proposed. Securing remote communication assures reliable operation of the substation in the distribution network.
keywords: {Substations;Security;Local area networks;Protocols;Redundancy;Synthetic aperture sonar;Standards;distribution automation security;IEC61850;Parallel Redundancy Protocol;substation automation security},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915429&isnumber=7912587

H. Sindi, E. El-Saadany and M. Shaaban, "Smart distribution systems stakeholders analysis and the effects on long-term planning," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 621-625.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915430
Abstract: Strategic analysis of stakeholders involved in the transition to a smart distribution system has been conducted. Proceeding from this analysis, deductions and conclusions about methods for promoting and allowing a smoother transition to the new paradigm are drawn. The recommendations can be highlighted as follows: 1) promoting new smart grid technologies; 2) encouraging communication and cooperation between involved parties; 3) consideration of daily optimal operation of assets to fully take advantage of their new active nature in order to better allocate them in the long-term planning process; and 4) consideration of stakeholders' interests in the planning phase in order to better absorb investments and move to the new paradigm. This required a design of a planning methodology that absorbs higher investments and considers the multi-stakeholder nature of the new systems.
keywords: {Stakeholders;Planning;Investment;Monitoring;Smart grids;Distributed power generation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915430&isnumber=7912587

D. Karimipour and F. R. Salmasi, "Stabilization of a distributed generation unit with constant power load in islanding mode," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 626-631.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915431
Abstract: This paper considers stabilization of a distributed generation unit (DG) with Constant Power Load (CPL). Constant power loads impose nonlinear behavior to the grid subsystem. The constant power drawn by these loads causes a destabilizing effect known as negative incremental impedance characteristics, which is the source of instability and system degradation. In this article, a DG system with local RLC load, and a power converter driven constant power load subsystem is modeled, which results in a set of nonlinear state space equations. We use inductor and capacitor banks in the DG system as control parameters to stabilize the system in presence of constant power load. The controller design is based on Lyapunov stability theorem such that the conditions on stability are emerged as LMI conditions on system parameters. Both islanded and grid connected modes are discussed. Furthermore, numerical simulations are provided to verify the theoretical analysis.
keywords: {Constant Power Load;distributed Generation;microgrid;nonlinear Control;stability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915431&isnumber=7912587

A. del Pilar Rios, K. Agbossou and A. Cardenas, "Taylor series approximation of ZIP model for on-line estimation of residential loads' parameters," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 632-637.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915432
Abstract: Electric models of loads are typically obtained from power measurements by imposing voltage variations within a large range beyond the recommended limits of normal operation. This traditional approach gives good results but is not adapted for the estimation of models' parameters while the load is fed by the utility voltage. This paper proposes a novel approach of static model based on the Polynomial (ZIP) model; the proposed approach uses Taylor series approximation (TSA) to represent the active and reactive power close to the nominal value of the utility voltage. This model allows the representation of the power consumption through the real voltage variations of the electrical system and permits the on-line estimation of the loads' parameters. Simulation and experimental results using common loads are provided confirming the advantages of the proposed method compared to the classic approach.
keywords: {Load modeling;Voltage measurement;Reactive power;Mathematical model;Taylor series;Power measurement;Power system dynamics;Load modeling;Parameter estimation;Smart grid;Demand Side Management;Home Energy Management},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915432&isnumber=7912587

Y. Wang, W. Li, G. Yan and S. Song, "Towards a framework for cyber attack impact analysis of electric cyber physical systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 638-643.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915433
Abstract: This paper proposes an unified framework for electrical cyber physical systems (ECPSs) and studies the mechanism of cyber attacks and cyber security. Communication networks are designed by characteristics of power grids. This model is universal to both transmission and distribution grids. The fragility of ECPSs under cyber attacks (DoS attacks and false data injection attacks) is analyzed in three scenarios based on different types and attackers' acknowledgments of the ECPSs. It has been proved that attacks happen at information uploading routers or control strategy downloading routers will influence the system differently. The effectiveness of relay protection policies and cyber security policies are verified by experimental results.
keywords: {Power grids;Communication networks;Protective relaying;Sensors;Load flow;Computer crime;ECPS;Cyber Security;Cyber Attack},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915433&isnumber=7912587

"Motion control, and mechatronics," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 644-646.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915434
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915434&isnumber=7912587

H. Muramatsu and S. Katsura, "A circle disturbance observer based on spatial periodicity for circle systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 648-653.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915435
Abstract: In motion control systems, disturbance suppression control is necessary to realize high precision control. Conventionally, control methods are designed on the basis of temporal dynamics. However, most disturbances are generated and related to moving conditions and actuator structures. In this paper, circle systems such as circle movements and structures are modeled, and a circle disturbance observer is proposed to suppress circle disturbances generated by the circle systems. The proposed method is designed by considering the spatial periodicity of the circle systems. It can reduce necessary estimated disturbances to memorize on the basis of the spatial periodicity. In order to compare the proposed method with a disturbance observer, simulations were conducted. The validity of the proposed method was confirmed by the experiments.
keywords: {Proposals;Observers;Torque;Angular velocity;Root mean square;Control systems;Stability analysis;Disturbance observer;Spatial periodicity;Time-delay element},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915435&isnumber=7912587

H. Zhang, Y. Wang, J. Zhu and Z. Zhang, "Balloon actuators based on the dielectric elastomer," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 654-658.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915436
Abstract: In this paper, we present a theoretical and experimental study about the carrying capacity of flight dielectric elastomer (DE) balloon in electromechanical performance. This paper deals with some structures which are consist of helium balloons or air balloons based on theoretical analysis. We compared the two kinds of gas balloons at the same initial pressure, air and helium, there was no great difference in original volume and volume change when applied voltages. It is very important to get large deformation to achieve control, we can increase the voltage, diameter, pre-stretch and preload to get that goal; The initial volume is very important for the deformation, and it needs to be big enough; The greater volume changes, the more weight can be taken by a helium balloon in the controlling condition.
keywords: {Dielectrics;Helium;Actuators;Mathematical model;Breakdown voltage;Voltage control;Loading;Dielectric elastomer balloon;Flighty-Deformation;Helium},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915436&isnumber=7912587

Y. Tsuchiya, D. Yashiro, K. Yubai and S. Komada, "Contact force control of dual-rotor helicopter with protect frame," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 659-664.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915437
Abstract: This paper proposes a contact force control system for a dual-rotor helicopter. Force control of a helicopter allows for achieving aerial tasks that include contact motions with objects. Although one-degree-of-freedom force control systems have been already developed, multi-degree-of-freedom systems have not been achieved yet. Therefore, in this paper, a force control system for a dual-rotor helicopter is proposed, and its validity is verified by simulations and experiments.
keywords: {Helicopters;Rotors;Force;Force control;Trajectory;Contacts;Angular velocity},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915437&isnumber=7912587

K. -H. Oh and H. -S. Ahn, "Kinematics of distance-based roll and pitch estimation for unmanned aerial vehicles," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 665-670.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915438
Abstract: This paper studies a distance-based roll and pitch estimation for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), using four distances between an UAV and surface of the ground. We derive the kinematics of the roll estimation on some assumptions. And then, using the derived roll angle, we represent the kinematics of the pitch estimation. At last, some simulations are performed to verify the derivation of the kinematics.
keywords: {Estimation;Kinematics;Mathematical model;Unmanned aerial vehicles;Navigation;Area measurement;Angular velocity},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915438&isnumber=7912587

M. Selmy, M. Fanni and A. M. Mohamed, "Micro/macro-positioning control of a novel contactless active robotic joint using active magnetic bearing," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 671-676.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915439
Abstract: In this paper the micro/macro-positioning control of a novel contactless active robotic joint using active magnetic bearing (AMB) is presented. In clean environments, such as surgery or clean rooms, the use of robots with this novel joint is useful to avoid friction, dust generation, and oil lubrication. Moreover, this kind of robots can be used in the applications that need high precision micropositioning control such as semiconductor wafers manipulation to form semiconductor devices. The novel robotic joint used in this paper is designed using finite element method. This joint has 6 degrees-of-freedom (DOFs), 1-DOF for robot joint roll angle and 5-DOF for AMB. The robot joint roll angle is controlled in macro-scale accuracy. The macro-scale positioning of the joint roll angle is needed for gross motion like normal robot revolute joint. The other 5-DOF of the joint are controlled like AMB with the different that the target pitch and yaw angles as well as the axial, vertical and horizontal movements are different than zero but in micro-scale range. The robot joint roll angle is controlled using a PID-based Feedback linearization controller, while a state feedback controller with integral term is used for controlling the AMB 5-DOFs. The micro/macro-positioning control of the novel robotic joint is implemented using MATLAB/Simulink. The robustness of the controllers is tested against payload variations. The results demonstrate that the proposed novel robotic joint is feasible and valid in the applications that need high precision micro-macro-positioning control.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Air gaps;Brushless DC motors;End effectors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915439&isnumber=7912587

K. Ogawa, K. Ohnishi and Y. Ibrahim, "New state observer gain tuning methodology based on the stable margin theory," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 677-682.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915440
Abstract: This paper proposes a new observer gain tuning methodology to achieve a robust position control. The state observer is often used to estimate the state of the system. Generally, the observer gain is tuned by an evaluation function and the operator needs to arbitrarily select a weight function to obtain an optimal observer gain. This paper introduces a methodology for observer gain tuning using the stability margin theory. In addition, the state observer is combined with the Disturbance Observer (DOB) to achieve a robust position control. The validity of the proposed methodology was tested and confirmed by simulations and experimental study.
keywords: {Observers;Robustness;Force;Tuning;Position control;Manganese;Stability analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915440&isnumber=7912587

Y. Lim and H. Ahn, "PI consensus-based motor synchronization with input saturations," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 683-687.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915441
Abstract: This paper studies a motor synchronization problem under input saturations. We propose the PI consensus-based synchronization algorithm. Then, applying the integral-type Lyapunov function, we drive that the multiple motors are synchronized in the presence of input saturations. Moreover, the anti-windup technique is applied to improve the performance, and the asymptotic convergence of speed errors to zero has been investigated. At last, numerical simulations are provided to show the effectiveness of the results.
keywords: {Synchronization;Heuristic algorithms;Lyapunov methods;Windup;Couplings;Laplace equations;Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915441&isnumber=7912587

R. Oboe, A. Tonin, K. Yu, K. Ohnishi and A. Turolla, "Weight estimation system using surface EMG armband," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 688-693.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915442
Abstract: Knowing the force exerted by a human operator while he/she is performing a specific task is important in many different field. For instance, limiting or optimizing the effort in sport activities allows for the development of specific training patterns for athletes, while knowing the effort made by a worker when he/she lifts a weight is important from the point of view of the safety. The effective effort is not only related to the net force/torque generated, but also to the force generated by each muscle. This aspect is the most crucial to be evaluated, as a non properly designed/handled exercise/task can lead to an excessive muscle strain and, in turn, to injuries. In this paper we report some preliminary results obtained by using low-cost wearable sensors in the estimation of the weight lifted by a human operator, through the simultaneous measurement of motion (via inertial sensors) and the muscles activations (via surface ElectroMyoGraphy - sEMG). The armband has 8 sEMG sensors and a 9-DoF inertial sensor, it has electrically safe setup with low voltage battery and Bluetooth protocol. The relationship between the EMG and inertial signals and the exerted force was made using a biarticular model of the arm. The model was used in order to have a theoretical value of the shoulder and elbow torques performing a weightlifting standardized tests. The value was then compared with the one estimated by the identification of a model and by means of a neural network. In both cases, the results show the relationship between signals and torque, but, in both cases, the results are affected by error. Nevertheless, even if it doesnt accurately estimate the weight lifted, both the presented techniques highlight the possibility of developing a classification of the exerted force that, calibrating the system for each person, can identify whether the weight lifted is light or heavy.
keywords: {Muscles;Electromyography;Force;Torque;Sensors;Neural networks;Mathematical model;sEMG;weight lifting estimation;wearable devices},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915442&isnumber=7912587

"Control system, robotics and automation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 694-696.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915443
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915443&isnumber=7912587

F. Ahmadloo and F. R. Salmasi, "A cyber-attack on communication link in distributed systems and detection scheme based on H-infinity filtering," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 698-703.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915444
Abstract: In this paper, a new cyber-attack is proposed for distributed systems, while detection of such an attack is recommended based on H-infinity filtering. In particular, we study the effect of a specific attack on the communication links between local control centers. Today's cyber-physical systems are complex and large scale, so that they are distributed over a large area. Using distributed control and monitoring centers for such systems results in great advantages. However, cyber-attacks on distributed systems should be considered seriously. First, we address a novel cyber-attack scheme, which employs both the sensor signals and communication links between monitoring centers. Then, the detection scheme for the proposed attack is introduced from an operator point of view. The proposed schemes are simulated in a distributed power system based on IEEE standard test benches. The simulation results show the feasibility of the proposed attack and detection schemes.
keywords: {Monitoring;Software;Filtering;Power systems;Simulation;State estimation;Communication link;cyber-attack;cyber-security;distributed system;H∞ filtering;shared network},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915444&isnumber=7912587

N. A. Oñate, C. A. Garcia and M. A. Beltrán, "A fermenter model based on neural networks experimentally validated," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 704-709.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915445
Abstract: Biotechnological processes are very complex systems for modeling, due to the presence of live microorganisms, nonlinear behavior and time-variant features. Many parameters of the process are uncertain and the industrial operating conditions are determined empirically for them. This paper presents a robust dynamic simulator in Matlab/Simulink environment from the work of Scaglia and the study of experimental data for analysis purposes of the fermentation process. The problem with these processes is given by the difficulty of obtaining data online. In this regard, it should be noted that the dominant state variable, given by the substrate concentration in the medium, is very difficult to measure, due to the strong parametric uncertainty and the presence of significant nonlinearities. In addition to this, the measuring of amount of bacteria is typically performed through a culture procedure that requires a significant amount of time. Thus, a state observer is developed from experimental data and the Scaglias Model, using neural networks, in order to facilitate the estimation of state variables values. This produced satisfactory results for a network with five neurons. The observer could, therefore, estimate in a short time: the amount of substrate, bacteria, CO2 and ethanol in the sample.
keywords: {Biological neural networks;Substrates;Ethanol;Microorganisms;Data models;Neurons;Observers;Neural networks;fermenter;modeling;wine;ethanol},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915445&isnumber=7912587

O. M. Omisore, S. Han, L. Ren, N. Zhang and L. Wang, "A geometric solution for inverse kinematics of redundant teleoperated surgical snake robots," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 710-714.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915446
Abstract: Pure analytical and numerical approaches are found undesirable for solving inverse kinematics of redundant robots. This is due to huge iterative procedures required to determine efficient joint configuration(s) for given target. In this paper, a new geometric method is presented for solving the inverse kinematics of snake robots ideal for real-time teleoperated surgery of internal organs. The method was applied to a 10-link redundant robotic model, capable of spatial navigation. Simulation result from the via-paths of circular track and human signature shows that the proposed method is fast and accurate in determining joint angles necessary to reach given target points with worst case mean error of x=0.608±0.231mm.
keywords: {Kinematics;Manipulators;Robot kinematics;Solid modeling;Redundancy;Snake Robots;Kinematics;Redundancy;Geometry;Teleoperation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915446&isnumber=7912587

B. N. Roodsari, C. J. B. Macnab and E. P. Nowicki, "A novel adaptive controller using radial basis function neural network for the wind energy conversion system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 715-720.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915447
Abstract: For a safe and efficient operation of large variable-pitch wind turbines, the controller plays a vital role. Below the rated wind speed, there is a power-optimal rotor speed for a given wind speed, achieved by designing a generator torque control. Pitch control is appropriate above the rated wind speed, to keep the rotor speed constant. In order to deal with nonlinearities and uncertainties, in this paper an approximate-adaptive control based on radial basis function networks is proposed, developed within a Lyapunov framework. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed controller has ability to deal with system nonlinearities and uncertainties.
keywords: {Wind turbines;Mathematical model;Wind speed;Rotors;Generators;Torque;Aerodynamics;Variable-Speed Variable-Pitch Wind-Turbine (VSVP-WT);Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT);Power Regulation (PR);Adaptive Neural Network;Radial-Basis Function (RBF);Lyapunov Stability;Adaptive Control;Tip Speed Ratio},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915447&isnumber=7912587

B. G. Elkilany, A. A. Abouelsoud and A. M. R. Fathelbab, "Adaptive formation control of robot swarms using optimized potential field method," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 721-725.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915448
Abstract: Robot Swarm is widely used in many applications such as forest fire detection, Search and rescue missions. Swarm of Robots is supposed to move together without collision and avoid obstacles while performing its target task. Therefore, the formation control of robot swarm is required to achieve the swarm robot target. In this paper, we present an adaptive formation control algorithm for robot swarm based on the Potential Field Method. The algorithm has three tasks, to keep robot swarm in a particular formation, avoid collision with obstacles in the environment and track a certain trajectory. An artificial neural network is employed to improve the performance of the algorithm. The network optimizes the weights in each layer then updates the potential Field parameters. A simulation via MATLAB is implemented to verify the proposed adaptive formation control algorithm. The results show that robot swarm takes less time to maintain formation, less time to track a trajectory and less time to reform again after avoiding an obstacle compared with the time in [1].
keywords: {Force;Collision avoidance;Trajectory;Optimization;Neurons;Robot kinematics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915448&isnumber=7912587

H. A. de Oliveira and P. F. F. Rosa, "Adaptive genetic neuro-fuzzy attitude control for a fixed wing UAV," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 726-731.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915449
Abstract: The remarkable growth of the different applications for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are currently of high research interest. This paper proposes a new approach for the attitude control system of a fixed wing aircraft. Using techniques of Artificial Intelligence (AI), this research presents a solution that uses Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS) as flight dynamics identifier, and genetic algorithms (GA) as parameter optimization to the attitude control. This approach ensures always the best control system response during a flight, and prevent the user from having to tune the control parameters before every mission.
keywords: {Software;Genetic algorithms;Attitude control;Genetics;Optimization;Hardware;Control systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915449&isnumber=7912587

M. R. Msukwa, N. Uchiyama and B. Dinh Bui, "Adaptive nonlinear sliding mode control with a nonlinear sliding surface for feed drive systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 732-737.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915450
Abstract: This paper proposes an adaptive nonlinear sliding mode control for feed drive systems. The aim is to increase precision by minimizing tracking errors of each feed drive axis without additional energy consumption. The proposed adaptive sliding mode control law is used to adjust controller gains based on the tracking error at each sampling time. Therefore, an appropriate control input can be generated on the system state such as the beginning of the transient state or around the steady state. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed controller, computer simulations and experiments were conducted for a typical lead screw feed drive system using a typical circular reference trajectory. The tracking error results of the proposed controller are compared with those of a nonlinear sliding mode controller. The proposed controller has achieved a reduction of 25 % of the tracking error with smaller control input variance.
keywords: {Feeds;Trajectory;Sliding mode control;Uncertainty;Damping;Stability analysis;Adaptive systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915450&isnumber=7912587

T. T. Jiang, Z. Q. Qian, Y. Lin, Z. M. Bi, Y. F. Liu and W. J. Zhang, "Analysis of virtual environment haptic robotic systems for a rehabilitation of post-stroke patients," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 738-742.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915451
Abstract: Haptic refers to feedback of a physical signal to a human user through touch. A haptic system realizes this feedback. In most of the applications today, the physical signal refers to force but not necessary. Virtual environment haptic systems refers to the situation where the force to be feedback from the objects in a virtual environment or computer. Virtual environment haptic robotic systems are widely used for rehabilitation and training of surgeon. However, currently, these systems seem to be qualitative; as such the training goal can never be precise. The root cause for this shortcoming is absence of theoretical analysis of virtual environment haptic robotic systems. This paper reports our work on a theoretical analysis of the virtual environment haptic robotic system. A commercial system Phantom Omni was taken as a case system to facilitate this research. This research has a generalized implication to any kind of virtual environment haptic robotic system as well as to general Human-Machine Cooperative Robot, a kind of which is the haptic system.
keywords: {Haptic interfaces;Robot kinematics;Virtual environments;Kinematics;Force;Computers;Human-machine cooperative robot;haptic interface;stroke treatment;kinematics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915451&isnumber=7912587

R. Simon, C. G. Reddy and P. S. L. Priya, "Attitude control of re-entry vehicles using adaptive SDRE technique," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 743-748.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915452
Abstract: Re-entry vehicles are space analogue of aircraft. It is the unanimous solution to achieve low cost, reliable and on-demand space access since they are used for multiple missions. Integrated adaptive guidance and control methodologies can be investigated to improve the safety and operability of these vehicles. In this paper, the state of the art adaptive control design called State Dependent Riccati Equation based Dual-Loop Servo is proposed for a fixed wing unmanned vehicle during the re-entry flight conditions. The performance of the proposed controller is analysed through simulation studies. The comparison between the proposed control law and the Dynamic Inverion based control law shows that, the former outperforms the latter even under off nominal flight conditions.
keywords: {Servomotors;Aerodynamics;Vehicle dynamics;Aerospace electronics;Space vehicles;Riccati equations;SDRE;SDRE integral servo;nonlinear systems;optimal control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915452&isnumber=7912587

S. Paul and W. Yu, "Bidirectional fuzzy PD control for active vibration control of building structure," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 749-754.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915453
Abstract: Proportional-derivative (PD) is a popular algorithm in the field of building structure vibration control, but there are infrequent broadcasted theory results of PD controller in connection to structural vibration control applications. In order to maintain minimum regulation error, a PD control requires sufficiently high proportional and derivative gains. The effect of these diminishes the transient performances of the vibration control. In this paper, a straight forward combination of PD control with fuzzy compensation is laid down. We state comprehensive sufficient conditions for choosing the PD gains. The stability theories are verified through numerical simulations and a two-story building prototype. The extracted results validates our theory analysis.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915453&isnumber=7912587

E. de Souza Gonçalves and P. F. F. Rosa, "Cointegration analysis for IMU in a fixed-wing UAV," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 755-760.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915454
Abstract: This paper proposes the deployment of an embedded system for a fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), including the implementation of an autonomous navigation algorithm for it. An Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) based Global Positioning System (GPS) / Inertial Navigation System (INS) integration with cointegrated measurements from inertial sensors has been developed in order to achieve localization on a mission. The experimental results with data from a flight test show that this approach can perform accurate state estimation.
keywords: {Sensors;Global Positioning System;Acceleration;Accelerometers;Unmanned aerial vehicles;Kalman filters},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915454&isnumber=7912587

B. Allouche, A. Dequidt, L. Vermeiren and P. Hamon, "Design and control of a sit-to-stand assistive device via EtherCAT fieldbus," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 761-766.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915455
Abstract: This paper presents a technological solution for designing an assistive device for a biomechanical study of the Sit-to-Stand movement (STS). This device targets people with disabilities following a stroke. The control algorithms are implemented in TwinCAT runtime environment. The communication between all the component and the control computer is ensured via the EtherCAT fieldbus. The aim of this architecture lies in the fact that it allows a quick development of a research prototype with the same safety issues found on an industrial machine. An experimental test of the STS strategy is presented.
keywords: {Safety;Robots;Automation;Real-time systems;Kinematics;Assistive devices;Standards},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915455&isnumber=7912587

L. Wen, Y. Li, M. Cong, H. Lang and Y. Du, "Design and optimization of a tendon-driven robotic hand," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 767-772.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915456
Abstract: This paper presents a design and optimization of a dexterous tendon-driven robotic hand that each finger is under-actuated. The robotic hand has 9 DOFs and 6 motors with a modular design concept of three fingers. A theoretical analysis had been carried out to verify the mechanical structure of the proposed hand, optimize the location of the pulleys for efficient transmission and workspace by exam the kinematics model of the designed hand. Experimental results show good grasping performance of the proposed hand. It demonstrates that our three-fingered robotic hand can grasp these objects with different shapes.
keywords: {Thumb;Pulleys;Tendons;Actuators;Robot sensing systems;robotic hand;tendon-driven mechanism;pulleys optimization;workspace simulation;grasping experiments},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915456&isnumber=7912587

R. Tasaki, Y. Watanabe and K. Terashima, "Dynamic grinding manipulation based on removal volume rate control," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 773-778.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915457
Abstract: We have developed a grinding motion control technology for an automatic finishing process by newly constructing a feedforward driving-type end-effector module attached to a multi-axis industrial arm. Metal products formed by pressurized filling methods, such as vacuum or die casting processes, often have physical penetration defects on the product surface. However, the manufacture of products with complex shapes that is an advantage of these casting methods would be a disadvantage in view of the difficulty of performing the finishing process using a grinding tool. This research is undertaken with a view to realizing an automatic high-speed grinding process for complex-shaped iron products by introducing a macro-micro dynamic control method that simultaneously manipulates a multi-axis arm for global motion and an end-effector module for local motion. Automatic grinding motion control for shorter process time and the associated movement velocity design methods, considering maximization of grinded volume rate per second, are discussed. The newly developed end-effector module, to which a high-speed driving actuator and a high-accuracy force sensor are attached, can detect position and height of a defect in real-time and adaptively moves to grind each defect shape for a required surface quality in a short time.
keywords: {Tools;Feeds;Shape;Robot sensing systems;Position measurement;Force},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915457&isnumber=7912587

Y. Bae, Y. Lim and H. Ahn, "Edge deletion algorithm for minimally rigid graph using consensus protocols," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 779-784.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915458
Abstract: Graph rigidity is an important property in multi-agent network for localization, formation control, and sensor fusion. In graph theory, a graph is minimally rigid if the removal of any edge results in a non-rigid graph. This work proposes distributed edge deletion algorithm that can enable to construct a minimally rigid graph. We discuss this problem for undirected multi-agent network with fixed topology in two dimensional space. To design such an algorithm, we first compute the number of edges to delete for minimally rigid graph using average consensus, and delete edges according to the rank of the weighting value using minimum and maximum consensus. Simulation result shows the effectiveness of the edge deletion algorithm.
keywords: {Protocols;Symmetric matrices;Monitoring;Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions;Algorithm design and analysis;Sensors;Multi-agent systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915458&isnumber=7912587

J. Glos and P. Vaclavek, "Efficient control of automotive R744 heat pump using Nelder-Mead simplex method," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 785-790.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915459
Abstract: This paper deals with coefficient of performance (COP) maximization of automotive R744 heat pump using Nelder-Mead simplex method. The COP maximum is searched using high-side pressure adjustment, what is possible and necessary during transcritical operation. Selected approach allows efficient heat pump operation, fast COP maximum localization, minimum number of needed actuator changes and resistance to heat pump parameters variation.
keywords: {Heat pumps;Mathematical model;Atmospheric modeling;Valves;Refrigerants;Heating systems;Temperature measurement},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915459&isnumber=7912587

M. Bhandari, D. M. Fulwani and R. Gupta, "Event triggered control of singularly perturbec linear system based on its slow and fast model," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 791-796.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915460
Abstract: In this paper, we consider the event triggered control of the singularly perturbed linear system, where the communication between sensor and the controller/actuator is through a digital communication network and the transmission is based on some state dependent criterion. The models of slow and fast subsystems of the plant are added at the controller and are used for the estimation of states between the transmission times. Whenever the difference between estimated and actual states exceeds a certain threshold, controller is updated with the actual states of the plant provided by the sensor. This effectively reduces the communication frequency. The stability properties of overall closed loop system is studied and it is found that for sufficiently small value of singular perturbation parameter, system attains practical stability and by adequately selecting trigger function parameters, asymptotic stability is also achieved. A numerical example is shown to illustrate the results of the paper.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Electronic mail;Asymptotic stability;Closed loop systems;Bandwidth;Current measurement},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915460&isnumber=7912587

L. A. S. Moreira, C. M. Justel and P. F. F. Rosa, "Experimental implementation of loop closure detection using data dimensionality reduction by spectral method," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 797-802.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915461
Abstract: This paper presents experimental results about loop closure detection in mobile robots through spectral description of images set and data dimensionality reduction. Both, spectral description and representation in low dimension depend heavily on the concept of dominant eigenvector. Integration between Matlab and ROS interface was exploited to perform our experiments. Besides, two environments were used: real and computationally simulated. Results have shown that the method is capable of performing correct loop closure detection at a significantly lower computation cost, when compared with those obtained by OpenCV library for visual analysis.
keywords: {Visualization;Simultaneous localization and mapping;Vocabulary;Cameras;Mobile robots;MATLAB},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915461&isnumber=7912587

A. Izadbakhsh and M. Masoumi, "FAT-based robust adaptive control of flexible-joint robots: Singular perturbation approach," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 803-808.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915462
Abstract: This paper is concerned with the problem of designing a robust adaptive control strategy for flexible joint robots (FJR). Under the assumption of weak joint elasticity, FJR is firstly modeled and converted into singular perturbation form. The control law consists of a FAT-based adaptive control strategy and a simple correction term are then used to stability of the slow dynamics, and damp out the elastic oscillations of the joints, respectively. The stability analysis are provided according to the Lyapunov second method. Simulation results on a single-link flexible joint robot demonstrate high performance of the proposed control schemes.
keywords: {Adaptive control;Robustness;Adaptation models;Mathematical model;Stability analysis;Manipulators;Composite control;Function approximation technique;Robust adaptive control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915462&isnumber=7912587

J. Alias, P. S. L. Priya and N. Beena, "Fractional order sliding mode controller for a solid-core magnetic bearing system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 809-814.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915463
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel type of fast convergence robust controller for a non-laminated magnetic bearing system whose dynamics is governed by a non-commensurate fractional order model. The key feature of this approach is the use of Fractional Order PID sliding manifolds and the appropriate sliding mode control law developed to assure the robustness. The stability of the closed loop system is ensured by the fractional-order stability theorems. Under the stable performance of system, the parameters of sliding mode surface are tuned by the given crossover frequency and the phase margin. Finally, simulations are carried out to indicate the effectiveness of the proposed robust fractional-order controller.
keywords: {Magnetic levitation;Robustness;Transfer functions;Sliding mode control;Mathematical model;Aerospace electronics;Manganese;fractional order system;sliding mode control;solid-core magnetic bearing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915463&isnumber=7912587

L. Benkhellat and D. Bensoussan, "Geogebra as a tool of design of ultrafast and robust controller," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 815-818.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915464
Abstract: An interactive graphical method of design is proposed in order to design a system which is robust and ultrafast. The aim will be to design a compensator with specific sensitivity bound ε on a given bandwidth while not exceeding a global sensitivity value M at all frequencies. The Geogebra program allows to adjust the compensator so that the open loop Nyquist plot is tangential to the M sensitivity circle at all frequencies, while staying outside the sensitivity circle ε within the designated bandwidth. The design is based on an improved quasi linear controller, i.e. a controller in which the high frequency cut-off depends on the open loop gain. The design also aims at keeping the Nyquist plot as close to the real value line -1/2 on the Nyquist plane so as to ensure a closed loop gain of unity on a maximum range of frequencies. The compensator is tuned with phase networks whose effects are seen graphically. The compensator's parameters are chosen so as to minimize the settling time of the time response.
keywords: {Sensitivity;Robustness;Time factors;Time-frequency analysis;Bandwidth;Frequency control;Tools;quasi linear;control;graphical method;ultrafast;robust},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915464&isnumber=7912587

Y. Huang, Y. Gao and Q. Wang, "Local stability of flat-foot dynamic bipedal walking with compliant joints," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 819-824.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915465
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the local stability of a flat-foot limit cycle walking model with compliant ankle joints, and analyze the effects of ankle stiffness and foot inertial and geometric parameters on disturbance rejection. These results can provide a further understanding of local behaviors of different phases in one step and guidelines for stiffness control and flat foot design towards stable walking of bipedal robots.
keywords: {Legged locomotion;Foot;Stability analysis;Mathematical model;Thermal stability;Limit-cycles},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915465&isnumber=7912587

Z. Zhou et al., "Mechatronic design of an ankle-foot rehabilitation robot for children with cerebral palsy and preliminary clinical trial," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 825-830.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915466
Abstract: Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most prevalent physical disability originating in childhood and with impaired motor function secondary to injury of the immature brain. In this paper, we developed a robotic ankle-foot rehabilitation system for children with cerebral palsy (RARS-CP). We introduce the novelties in robot mechanical design, actuation and transmission, and hierarchical control system. Customized graphical user interfaces are developed in Labview environment based on FPGA-based embedded system. To validate the reliability and feasibility of the proposed system, we recruit a health subject and a child with CP to carry out experiments, respectively. In the experiment, we firstly verified characterization of low-level robot control, including three working modalities: position control, torque control and velocity-torque control. Then, we performed a passive stretching therapy and game-based active rehabilitation sessions for the patient to further test the whole system. Preliminary results about robot performance demonstrate that the proposed RARS-CP is a promising solution in CP clinical rehabilitation for ankle joint.
keywords: {Portable document format;IEEE Xplore},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915466&isnumber=7912587

D. de-Felipe and E. Benedito, "Minimizing rework costs in multistage production processes by modifying quality specification limits," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 831-836.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915467
Abstract: Multistage production processes are becoming more important in the industry to ensure levels of flexibility, efficiency and modularity. Thus, the way in which companies define optimal production parameters related to production costs and quality must be adapted to this reality. In this paper we introduce a multi-response optimization (MRO) model for a two stage production process. The model gives first stage quality specification limits which minimize the rework costs caused by the nonconforming parts of the whole process. The proposed model is applied to an example based on a production process of the automotive industry. The benefits of the model are evaluated by comparing the capability and the rework costs of the multistage production process before and after the optimization.
keywords: {Production;Optimization;Industries;Covariance matrices;Adaptation models;Automotive engineering;Gaussian distribution;Cyber-Physical systems;multistage production processes;online operation conditions;rework costs;production quality},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915467&isnumber=7912587

A. Sharma, K. Gupta, A. Kumar, A. Sharma and R. Kumar, "Model based path planning using Q-Learning," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 837-842.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915468
Abstract: Though the classical robotics is highly proficient in accomplishing a lot of complex tasks, still it is far from exhibiting the human-like natural intelligence in terms of flexibility and reliability to work in dynamic scenarios. In order to render these qualities in the robots, reinforcement learning could prove to be quite effective. By employing learning based training provided by reinforcement learning methods, a robot can be made to learn to work in previously unforeseen situations. Still this learning task can be quite cumbersome due to its requirement of the huge amount of training data which makes the training quite inefficient in the real world scenarios. The paper proposes a model based path planning method using the ε greedy based Q-learning. The scenario was modeled using a grid-world based simulator which is being used in the initial training of the agent. The trained policy is then improved to learn the real world dynamics by using the real world samples. This study proves the efficiency and reliability of the simulator-based training methodology.
keywords: {Robots;Learning (artificial intelligence);Training;Cameras;Biological neural networks;Path planning;Model Based Control;Q-learning;Reinforcement Learning;Neural Network;Grid-World},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915468&isnumber=7912587

Y. Masui, K. Hirata and T. Hagiwara, "Modified state predictive control of continuous-time systems with input delay," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 843-847.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915469
Abstract: The state predictive control is one of the most effective methods to compensate the input delay of linear systems. In the continuous/discrete-time scenario, the corresponding closed-loop poles except for the eigenvalues of A + BF are arranged at -∞/the origin automatically. In the discrete-time setting, a modified state predictive control method has been proposed in which all closed-loop poles including the rest can be assigned arbitrarily. Since the deadbeat nature of the original control is altered, it might be effective in robustness. Motivated by this observation, in this paper, the continuous-time counterpart is derived. The robustness against the delay length mismatch is examined via numerical examples.
keywords: {Decision support systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915469&isnumber=7912587

D. H. Shah and A. J. Mehta, "Multirate output feedback based discrete-time sliding mode control for fractional delay compensation in NCSs," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 848-853.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915470
Abstract: This paper addresses the time delay problem in Networked Control Systems (NCSs) occuring due to the presence of communication medium. To compensate the time delay multirate output feedback based sliding mode controller is designed in which the control input is computed based on the system outputs and past control signals by taking full advantage of network transmission. A Thiran Approximation technique is used to compensate the networked delays. The sensor to controller delay is compensated at the sliding surface, while sliding mode controller (SMC) is utilized to compute the control sequences. The stability of the closed loop NCSs is derived using Lyapunov approach. Simulations results are given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
keywords: {Discrete-Time Sliding Mode Control;Multirate ouput feedback;Networked Control;Network Delay;Stability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915470&isnumber=7912587

C. J. B. Macnab, "Neural-adaptive backstepping for flexible-joint robots with neither extra parameters, extra networks, nor robust terms," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 854-859.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915471
Abstract: A typical direct neural-adaptive control of an n-link rigid manipulator uses n neural network outputs in tandem with n proportional-derivative controls. However, previous approaches to rigid-link, flexible-joint robot control using 3 steps of backstepping have required knowledge of the spring constants, extra adaptive parameters, extra neural network outputs (beyond 3n), and/or robust control terms. This paper presents a control analogous to those for rigid robots at each step of backstepping, using exactly n neural network outputs at each step, no extra adaptive parameters, no extra neural networks, and no extra robust control terms. Simulation results demonstrate the performance with end-effector trajectory tracking of a two-link planar flexible-joint robot.
keywords: {Neural networks;Robots;Backstepping;Robustness;Springs;Robust control;PD control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915471&isnumber=7912587

A. Mohamed, J. Ren, H. Lang and M. El-Gindy, "Optimal collision free path planning for an autonomous articulated vehicle with two trailers," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 860-865.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915472
Abstract: This paper presents a motion planning algorithm for generating optimal collision-free paths for robotic vehicle with two trailers moving autonomously. The proposed algorithm is based on combination between artificial potential field method (APF) and optimal control theory. The optimal control theory is applied to generate an optimal collision-free path for robotic vehicle from a starting point to the goal point. On the other hand, the proposed APF is based on two-dimensional Gaussian function to represent goal location as attractor and obstacles as repulsors and consequently, will control the steering angle of the robotic vehicle so that it can reach to its target location safely avoiding collision. A linear two-degree-of-freedom vehicle model with linear tire characteristics is derived to represent the vehicle motion considering the lateral and yaw dynamics. Several simulations are carried out to check the fidelity of the proposed technique and the illustrated results demonstrated the generated path for the robotic vehicle with two trailers satisfy vehicle dynamics constraints, avoid collision with the obstacles and reach the target location safely. The simulations results demonstrated the efficiency of the proposed algorithm and its success in dealing with complex environments with different obstacles.
keywords: {Path planning;Optimal control;Mobile robots;Collision avoidance;Agricultural machinery;Robot kinematics;path planning;autonomous navigation;vehicle with two trailers;artificial potential field;optimal control theory},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915472&isnumber=7912587

K. Tamura and A. Kawamura, "Robust and high-mobility walking control for uneven terrain without zero-moment-point feedback," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 866-871.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915473
Abstract: This paper introduces a novel control system of bipedal robots on uneven terrain. Since this method does not require to measure Zero Moment Point (ZMP), the tracking performance of the controller is not deteriorated by the noise on a measured ZMP. Moreover, the robot withstands frequent perturbations because of its two-degree-of-freedom structure. The robot is stabilized by Center of Mass (COM) regulation while the ZMP is implicitly designed by using a multi-rate controller. In addition, the foot placement is adaptively determined by predicting the ZMP position to establish stepping responses to perturbations. The performance of the proposed method is tested by using a robot programed accordingly.
keywords: {Legged locomotion;Stability analysis;Foot;Mathematical model;Trajectory},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915473&isnumber=7912587

S. Khandelwal and K. P. Detroja, "Simplified decoupling based control for processes having complex EOTF dynamics," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 872-877.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915474
Abstract: Most of the modern industries have multivariable processes wherein interactions exist. As the process outputs and inputs are coupled, designing controller for MIMO processes is a challenging task. The effective open-loop transfer functions (EOTFs) between the paired process input-output variables have complex high order dynamics. While many of the decoupling control methods uses effective transfer function (ETF) as an FOPDT approximation for EOTF in order to tune the controllers, their suitability is limited only to certain type of processes. In this paper, wide variety of multivariable processes have been considered and possibility for applicability of methods relying on ETFs for controller design have been explored. Further, a decoupling control method has been proposed which uses simple decoupler elements. The PI/PID controllers are designed in a straightforward manner based on the EOTFs. The proposed method doesn't involve any approximations in form of model order reduction and ensures the realizability of decoupler by simply ignoring the unrealizable functions in the decoupling elements. Simulations have been carried out on various MIMO systems and various performance indices have been evaluated and compared against existing methods to validate our finding and check the robustness of the proposed method for significant plant-model mismatch.
keywords: {Process control;Transfer functions;MIMO;Robustness;Control systems;Industries;Algorithm design and analysis;Multivariable;PI/PID control;decoupling;effective open-loop transfer function (EOTF)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915474&isnumber=7912587

I. A. Seleem and S. F. M. Assal, "Sliding mode control of underactuated five-link biped robot for climbing stairs based on real human data," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 878-883.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915475
Abstract: The aim of this paper is to develop a robust control algorithm for a five-link biped robot with one degree of underactuation to climb stairs in a natural manner. The biped consists of a five-link planar robot with two actuators at the hip and another two at the knee joints. A robust sliding mode controller is proposed to track gait trajectories while climbing stairs. The control signals are computed using first-order sliding surfaces as a linear combination of the tracking errors and their time derivatives of the four actuated joints and those of the underactuated ankle joint of the stance leg. In addition, the controller parameters are optimized using Genetic Algorithm. Since human sensorimotor controls are done in an optimal way following the principle of optimality, gait trajectories data of the human subject are captured by Kinect sensor during climbing stairs to be used as reference trajectories. For the subject, the hip and swing limb ankle trajectories are captured and filtered. Desired joint trajectories are obtained as a function of those ankle and hip trajectories using inverse kinematics. The results prove that the biped accurately follows the desired trajectories during climbing stairs.
keywords: {Trajectory;Legged locomotion;Hip;Mathematical model;Sliding mode control;Robot sensing systems;biped robot;underactuation;sliding mode control;Genetic Algorithm;gait trajectory;kinect},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915475&isnumber=7912587

S. Kim, "Two practical simulators of a traveling mobile robot equipped with optical mice and their optimal parameter setting," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 884-889.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915476
Abstract: This paper presents two practical simulators of a traveling mobile robot that is equipped with optical mice and the optimal setting of their controllable parameters. It is assumed that three optical mice are installed at the bottom of a mobile robot, from which the traveling velocity of a mobile robot can be estimated. First, taking structural simplicity and user convenience into account, two practical designs of mobile robot traveling simulator using optical mice are proposed, which allow 1 DOF and 2 DOF traveling simulation. Second, the velocity kinematics of the mobile robot traveling simulator is formulated, in which the mobile robot traveling simulator generates the velocity measurements of optical mice that are applied to a mobile robot under simulation. Third, for a given velocity of a mobile robot under simulation, the optimal parameter setting of the mobile robot traveling simulator is described, which minimizes the discrepancy between the desired and the actual velocity measurements of optical mice. Fourth, computer simulation results are given to compare the parameter setting and the simulation capability between the two designs of a mobile robot traveling simulator.
keywords: {Mobile robots;Mice;Optical sensors;Velocity measurement;Optical variables measurement;Optical imaging;DC motors;Optical mice;mobile robot;velocity estimation;traveling simulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915476&isnumber=7912587

R. Jafari and W. Yu, "Uncertain nonlinear system control with fuzzy differential equations and Z-numbers," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 890-895.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915477
Abstract: In this paper, the solutions of fuzzy differential equations (FDEs) are estimated by using two types of Bernstein neural networks. Here, the uncertainties are in the form of Z numbers. Firstly, we transform the FDE to four ordinary differential equations (ODEs) at par with Hukuhara differentiability. After that we develop neural models having the structure of ODEs. By using modified backpropagation technique for Z number variables, the training of neural networks are carried out. The results of the simulation illustrate that these innovative models, Bernstein neural networks, are efficient to approximate the solutions of FDEs which are on the basis of Z-numbers.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915477&isnumber=7912587

S. Miah, F. Shaik and H. Chaoui, "Universal dynamic tracking control law for mobile robot trajectory tracking," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 896-901.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915478
Abstract: This manuscript presents a universal control law for a class of complex dynamic systems, such as mobile robots. The trajectory tracking problem is among the major problems in the field of robotics. The proposed universal control law solves the trajectory tracking problem of mobile robots. Despite a large body of research on developing robot's control laws conducted in the literature, the dynamic effects of robots are often not taken into consideration while deriving control laws that define their trajectories. In most cases, the robot's trajectory tracking and/or stabilization problems are addressed based on its kinematic model due to simplicity. Therefore, the need for a universal control law based on the robot's dynamic and/or kinematic model is significant. Even though the feedback control theory is well-established in the field of robotics, the control laws for dynamic systems are typically more complex than system models themselves. Furthermore, control laws are required to be adapted depending on models of different mobile robot systems. Here, the development of universal control law is underscored, i.e., the paper is aimed at developing universal dynamic tracking control law that solves the trajectory tracking problem of a class of mobile robots. The controller is tested through a set of computer simulations using a differential drive mobile robot operating in an indoor planar environment.
keywords: {Mobile robots;Robot kinematics;Trajectory;Trajectory tracking;Kinematics;Vehicle dynamics;Feedback control;Lagrange multiplier;mobile robot dynamics;optimal control;trajectory tracking},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915478&isnumber=7912587

K. Wang, N. Ding and F. Dai, "Visual servoing based pickup of stationary objects with a dynamically controlled manipulator," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 902-907.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915479
Abstract: The visual servoing based pickup of stationary objects (or regulation, etc.) has attracted many academic researchers and industrial engineers over the past two decades, and numerous control strategies are proposed for this challenging problem. The controller proposed in this paper follows the Position Based Visual Servoing (PBVS) paradigm. Most of the PBVS controllers, if not all, are designed assuming that the position of the manipulator end effector and that of the stationary object have been accurately recovered with the vision-based estimators. Therefore the rigorous stabilities of such controller/estimator strategies cannot be promised due to the separation principle does not hold for the general nonlinear systems. Accordingly, a new dynamic PBVS controller is proposed in this paper for the visually servoed pickup of stationary objects by embedding two novel adaptive estimators into this new controller to estimate the position of the manipulator end effctor and that of the stationary object online. The dynamic model of the manipulator is considered in the controller design to improve the transient performance. It is proved by Lyapunov theory that this adaptive controller/estimator strategy gives rise to the asymptotic pickup of stationary objects and the convergence of the estimated positions to the actual ones. An experiment is conducted to validate the effectiveness of the proposed controller/estimator strategy.
keywords: {Manipulator dynamics;Cameras;End effectors;Visual servoing;Estimation;visual servoing;manipulator;dynamic control;stationary objects},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915479&isnumber=7912587

"Sensors, actuators, system integration and nano-technologies," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 908-910.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915480
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915480&isnumber=7912587

Y. Li, Y. Wang, M. Cong and H. Lang, "Design and development of a water quality monitoring network and system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 912-916.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915481
Abstract: This paper proposes a design and development of a water quality monitoring network and system for real-time water parameter acquisition, water quality monitoring, estimation. A low-cost measurement unit of water quality is designed and developed which is considered as a sensor node in a water quality monitoring sensor network. A comprehensive water quality index system is proposed to integrate the real-time water parameters with a knowledge base so that it can overcome the shortcoming of the existing water quality index system and provide prediction and estimation of the current state and event of the water bodies using an intelligent reasoning unit. Finally, a powerful sensor node with mobility is proposed and developed by using a water-proof UAV. Because of the developed moving node, it increases the reliability, flexibility of the original sensor network.
keywords: {Decision support systems;water quality;UAV;sensor network;water quality index},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915481&isnumber=7912587

H. Zuo and S. He, "Double stage FPCB scanning micromirror for laser pattern generation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 917-921.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915482
Abstract: This paper presents a double stage FPCB (Flexible Printed Circuit Board) electrostatic parallel plate (DSFP) micromirror. It is designed and fabricated base on mature commercial FPCB processes with low cost. The DSFP micromirror includes a FPCB moving electrode in the middle, two identical FR4 PCB fixed electrodes on both sides and a silicon mirror plate with aluminum coating. Compare with conventional MEMS micromirrors, it has much lower cost, shorter fabrication cycle and higher mirror surface quality. The performances of DSFP micromirror are modeled by Finite Element Analysis (FEA) software ANSYS. Prototypes are fabricated and tested. It can reach 3.25° average rotation angle with 100 V sinusoidal driving at 117 Hz resonance.
keywords: {Micromirrors;Electrodes;Resonant frequency;Prototypes;Electrostatics;Force;FPCB electrostatic actuator;Double stage plate;Scanning micromirror;Laser pattern generation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915482&isnumber=7912587

Z. Liu and H. Liu, "Experimenting capacitive sensing technique for structural integrity assessment," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 922-927.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915483
Abstract: This paper presents the experimental results of capacitive imaging sensors for structural integrity assessment. The capacitive sensor is based on the measurement of capacitance change due to the anomaly or discontinuity in structures and materials. A number sensor prototypes are investigated in the study. The observation of the scanned image of a Aluminum plate, a carbon fiber plate, and ductile iron pipe segments, is summarized in this paper. Future research will consider applying signal/image processing techniques to quantitatively characterize the anomaly or discontinuity for a more comprehensive assessment of structural integrity in varied applications.
keywords: {Capacitive sensors;Imaging;Inspection;Aluminum;Electrodes;Sensor phenomena and characterization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915483&isnumber=7912587

D. Ahmadou, R. Laref, E. Losson and M. Siadat, "Reduction of drift impact in gas sensor response to improve quantitative odor analysis," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 928-933.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915484
Abstract: Metal-oxide gas sensors are largely used in electronic nose devices thanks to their high sensitivity and low cost. But for a reliable utilization of these sensors it is imperative to deal with their sensitive element alteration which is produced by gas exposures. In order to limit significantly this alteration, a very time-consuming cleaning process is necessary after each gas exposure. In this way, when continuous and rapid monitoring of a gas concentration is desired, the slow recovery process (tens of minutes) limits strongly the use of an electronic nose composed of MOX sensors. We present here, a signal processing method to reduce the impact of the gas sensor response instabilities resulted from an incomplete cleaning process of their sensitive layer. The proposed technique is based on the correction of sensor responses instabilities, called short-term drifts, by taking into account information coming from the state of the sensor regeneration. This new approach is explored using experimental data from a gas sensor array responding to various concentrations of pine essential oil vapors. The proposed signal processing technique significantly limits the short-term drift effects on the gas sensor responses. Comparing to classical methods used for drift correction, our approach shows an improved intensity discrimination of the odorant atmospheres. We hope that this study can help industrials or researchers working on the field of electronic nose development concerning the drift compensation of MOX gas sensors.
keywords: {Gas detectors;Cleaning;Electronic noses;Oils;Sensor phenomena and characterization;Signal processing;gas sensors;drift compensation;continuous monitoring;odor quantification)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915484&isnumber=7912587

S. Tsuji and T. Kohama, "Tactile and proximity sensor using self-capacitance measurement on curved surface," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 934-937.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915485
Abstract: In this paper, we develop a tactile and proximity sensor using self-capacitance measurement on the curved surface for human collaboration robot (HCRs). The proposed sensor consists of two measurement electrodes and an elastic body. We produced the prototype sensor using the flexible circuit board. Thus, the sensor can curve in the curved surface. The sensor using self-capacitance measurement can detect the object before contact, and detect the pressure and discriminate the material on contact. Therefore, the sensor will assure the safety and workability of the robot because the robot will avoid unnecessary contact with objects including humans.
keywords: {Electrodes;Force;Capacitance measurement;Prototypes;Tactile sensors;Proximity sensor;Tactile sensor;Self-capacitance measument;Robot},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915485&isnumber=7912587

"Electronic system on chip and real time embedded control," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 938-940.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915486
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915486&isnumber=7912587

L. Costas, R. Fernández-Molanes, J. J. Rodríguez-Andina and J. Fariña, "Characterization of FPGA-master ARM communication delays in zynq devices," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 942-947.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915487
Abstract: The Field-Programmable System-on-Chip concept, integrating processors and configurable logic into the same chip, leads to digital design platforms more powerful than processors and FPGAs alone. Efficient communication between the processor and the FPGA fabric is a key factor to achieve maximum performance in these devices. Architectures for processor-FPGA communications include functional blocks like bridges, memories, or interconnect resources, allowing different communication mechanisms to be used, with different design complexity and performance. The main goal of this paper is to characterize the communication delays in Xilinx devices in the cases where the processor acts as communications master. The characterization procedure is the same used in a previous work dealing with Altera devices, with which a comparison is made. This is, to the best of authors' knowledge, the first comparative study between both families of devices. The results show remarkable differences between them.
keywords: {Decision support systems;Cyclones;Timing;Q measurement;Size measurement},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915487&isnumber=7912587

G. Shirkoohi, S. E. Behbahani, Z. Zhao, A. Gibbons and G. Cowlard, "Control and monitoring systems update for thermal printers," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 948-952.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915488
Abstract: A new control and interface system is to be introduced for a series of thermal printers which emerged as the result of obsolescence of some of the components within a well in demand and high precision operating set of printers congruent to the market they were designed for. The obsolescence of some of the main components led to the need for creation of new design for these printers with improved features and performance. This paper describes the modifications proposed and the projection for modernisation and improved capability for these printers.
keywords: {Printers;Field programmable gate arrays;Pins;Printing;Heating systems;Software;Touch sensitive screens;Colibri ARM processor;FPGA;Interface;Obsolescence;Thermal Printer},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915488&isnumber=7912587

D. Duy and K. Tanaka, "Hardware implementation of enhanced virtual release advancing for real-time task scheduling," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 953-958.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915489
Abstract: Time complexity is one of the most important requirements for task scheduling algorithms in real-time embedded systems. In order to satisfy this requirement, Enhanced Virtual Release Advancing (EVRA) algorithm [1] was proposed as an effective algorithm with relatively low runtime overhead to shorten response times in the context of Total Bandwidth Server and Earliest Deadline First algorithms. For further reduction of runtime overhead, hardware implementation of EVRA is designed for effectiveness and applicability to actual real-time systems. The implementation targets an ITRON real-time operating system running on an ARM Cortex-A9 processing core with a field-programmable gate array (FPGA). On an evaluation board, the actual runtime overheads were obtained as the number of cycles taken for the algorithm's execution. Evaluation results show that the maximum additional runtime overhead per tick is reduced by up to 30% compared with that of the original (software) virtual release advancing.
keywords: {Hardware;Registers;Runtime;Real-time systems;Time factors;Algorithm design and analysis;Ports (Computers);real-time scheduling;runtime overhead;virtual release advancing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915489&isnumber=7912587

J. Shen, G. Xu, Y. Xu, L. Qiu and G. Li, "National instrument-based experimental validation of a nonlinear real-time induction motor model in an EV simulation system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 959-964.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915490
Abstract: Real-time simulation of an electrical vehicle (EV) with hardware-in-the-loop is a cost-effective approach in evaluating the behavior of electrical vehicles and its controllers before applying them in a real system. This paper demonstrates a nonlinear approach of a real-time induction motor model implemented in a National Instrument real-time platform. Many studies have been conducted concerning on the real-time modelling of induction motors, but lots of the models are limited to linear ones. This paper presents the modeling, real-time implementation and experimental validation of a nonlinear induction motor model mounted on an electrical vehicle. The experimental validation system consists of two parts, the motor controller and the model motor. The model motor is a real-time simulation model based on the nonlinear stator flux model. The consistency of electrical characteristics between the model motor and the real motor is guaranteed by adding the external electrical interface circuit. The system can be used to deliver the testing and researching of motor control systems instead of the real ones. The experimental results show that the model motor can effectively simulate the characteristics of true induction motors. Thus, it can be applied in studies of electrical vehicle systems.
keywords: {Induction motors;Real-time systems;Mathematical model;Rotors;Stators;Integrated circuit modeling;Emulation;Hardware-in-the-loop;Induction motor modeling;Nonlinear model;Real-time emulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915490&isnumber=7912587

H. Chaoui, A. A. Aljarboua and S. Miah, "Universal real-time control framework and Internet of Things for fast-paced research and development based production environments," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 965-970.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915491
Abstract: This paper introduces a universal real-time control platform for complex research and development (R&D) based products design. The inherent complexity in R&D projects makes products development a difficult task to undertake. The use of state of the art development tools for modeling, simulation, and hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) validation contributes to a complexity reduction. However, R&D projects still require significant development time since many design iterations are usually necessary before final solution, which increases the cost. In most R&D processes, these tools are not used beyond rapid prototyping since development for mass production is usually performed in another environment, using different tools. This paper presents a fast and cost effective way of R&D-based products development, speeding-up time to market.
keywords: {Real-time systems;MATLAB;Tools;XML;Computational modeling;DC motors;Production},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915491&isnumber=7912587

"Signal and image processing and computational intelligence [breaker page]," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 971-972.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915492
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915492&isnumber=7912587

J. López-Randulfe, C. Veiga, J. J. Rodríguez-Andina and J. Fariña, "A quantitative method for selecting denoising filters, based on a new edge-sensitive metric," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 974-979.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915493
Abstract: Noise removal is a fundamental requirement for many image processing applications. Its goal is filtering noise from images while preserving integrity of fine details and edges. In order to assess the quality of image denoising algorithms, it is of paramount importance to use suitable metrics. In other words, the use of an appropriate Image Quality Assessment (IQA) procedure is a key factor for selecting the most suitable image denoising filter and, hence, it has a major impact on the quality of the final image. This paper demonstrates that currently used IQA metrics are not suitable for selecting optimal image denoising filters when edge preservation must be evaluated, because they provide quality figures for the entire image, without specifically addressing edges. From this fact, a method for selecting the optimal filter in this context is proposed, based on minimizing a novel metric that accounts for filter response in edges. Smoothing and sharpening algorithms have been applied to different noisy images and then evaluated using popular metrics and the proposed one. Results show that the new metric is more suitable to assess final image quality when edge deterioration effects have to be accounted for, while offering a simple and understandable approach.
keywords: {Image edge detection;Image denoising;Noise reduction;Noise measurement;Image quality},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915493&isnumber=7912587

Y. Wang, Y. Huang, W. Zheng, Z. Zhou, D. Liu and M. Lu, "Combining convolutional neural network and self-adaptive algorithm to defeat synthetic multi-digit text-based CAPTCHA," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 980-985.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915494
Abstract: We always use CAPTCHA(Completely Automated Public Turing test to Tell Computers and Humans Apart) to prevent automated bot for data entry. Although there are various kinds of CAPTCHAs, text-based scheme is still applied most widely, because it is one of the most convenient and user-friendly way for daily user [1]. The fact is that segmentations of different types of CAPTCHAs are not always the same, which means one of CAPTCHA's bottleneck is the segmentation. Once we could accurately split the character, the problem could be solved much easier. Unfortunately, the best way to divide them is still case by case, which is to say there is no universal way to achieve it. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm to achieve state-of-the-art performance, what was more, we also constructed a new convolutional neural network as an add-on recognition part to stabilize our state-of-the-art performance of the whole CAPTCHA system. The CAPTCHA datasets we are using is from the State Administration for Industry& Commerce of the People's Republic of China. In this datasets, there are totally 33 entrances of CAPTCHAs. In this experiments, we assume that each of the entrance is known. Results are provided showing how our algorithms work well towards these CAPTCHAs.
keywords: {CAPTCHAs;Image segmentation;Optical character recognition software;Neural networks;Character recognition;Business;Clustering algorithms;CAPTCHA;convolutional neural network;segmentation;reverse Turing test;clustering},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915494&isnumber=7912587

V. Natarajan, T. -Y. Hung, S. Vaikundam and L. -T. Chia, "Convolutional networks for voting-based anomaly classification in metal surface inspection," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 986-991.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915495
Abstract: Automated Visual Inspection (AVI) systems for metal surface inspection is increasingly used in industries to aid human visual inspectors for classification of possible anomalies. For classification, the challenge lies in having a small and specific dataset that may easily result in over-fitting. As a solution, we propose to use deep Convolutional Neural Networks (ConvNets) learnt from the large ImageNet dataset [9] for image representations via transfer learning. Since a small dataset cannot be used to fine-tune a ConvNet due to overfitting, we also propose a Majority Voting Mechanism (MVM), which fuses the features extracted from the last three layers of ConvNets using Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifiers. This classification framework is effective where no prior knowledge of the best performing ConvNet layers is needed. This also allows flexibility in the choice of ConvNet used for feature extraction. The proposed method not only outperforms state-of-the-art traditional hand-crafted features in terms of classification but also obtains good results compared to other deep ConvNet features extracted from a pre-selected best layer on several anomaly and texture datasets.
keywords: {Feature extraction;Support vector machines;Metals;Inspection;Visualization;Neural networks;Image representation;anomaly classification;convolutional neural network;transfer learning;voting;automated visual inspection;metal surface},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915495&isnumber=7912587

N. Amrouche, A. Khenchaf and D. Berkani, "Detection and tracking targets under low SNR," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 992-996.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915496
Abstract: Target tracking in the time is a difficult problem of dynamic state estimation; the problem is more complex in a low signal to noise ratio (SNR) or in high clutter conditions. An efficient approach for target detection and tracking under low signal to noise ratio (SNR) conditions is the Track-Before-Detect (TBDF) filter. This paper proposes to use the TBD method based on particle filtering includes unthresholded data and a binary variable of the existence of the target in the estimating target state for two motion model. Using simulations it is shown that with this method, it is possible to detect and track the target in low signal to noise ratio.
keywords: {Target tracking;Radar tracking;Signal to noise ratio;Lead;Bayes methods;Atmospheric measurements;target tracking;detection;radar;particle filter;nonlinear filtering},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915496&isnumber=7912587

P. Brombacher, J. Masino, M. Frey and F. Gauterin, "Driving event detection and driving style classification using artificial neural networks," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 997-1002.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915497
Abstract: Knowledge about the driving behavior of a driver is important for applications in many different areas, especially for Advanced Driver Assistance Systems. The driving style does not only affect the current driver and his vehicle but also his environment. For example, usage-based insurances classify the driving style in order to reward calm drivers by granting them a discount. In this paper we present a novel algorithm to provide an accurate classification of a person's driving style. Our model is based on the identification of driving maneuvers and the classification of the driving style for these events using artificial neural networks. Furthermore, an overall score of the driving style for one trip is calculated based on the classified events. We validate our developed model in 58 test trips from different test drivers using a recently developed low-cost measuring device based on a Raspberry Pi. The results of our validation show that the model can identify more than 90 % of the driving maneuvers correctly. Moreover, the driving style classification matches the assessment of the driver in 81 % of the relevant trips with a normalized average mean squared error of less than 11 %. In addition, a moving average of the calculated score for each event shows validated changes in the driving behavior of the test persons.
keywords: {Acceleration;Vehicles;Sensors;Heuristic algorithms;Vehicle dynamics;Classification algorithms;Global Positioning System},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915497&isnumber=7912587

W. Lee, S. S. -H. Park, J. Afshar and J. Baek, "Facial clustering model upon principal component analysis databases," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1003-1007.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915498
Abstract: Recently, the advancement of face recognition technology, which manifests itself in the variety of applications such as ATM machines, CC cameras, personal identification, etc., brings about a new-fashioned surveillance situation to distinguish and identify any person. This paper tries to improve the face recognition process by introducing a new model, Face Clustering, in which the face angles are clustered using AP-clustering approach so that memory space is saved and search accuracy as well as speed are boosted. Besides, a novel sensor device and program are proposed for measuring the real face angles and the face angles from face images, respectively. Hence, measuring the greater angles (>40°) using sensor device, which might not be achievable by the program, can become facilitated to be used in face recognition process. The angle values are then compared and the results demonstrate that Face Clustering model outperforms the PCA approach.
keywords: {Face;Face recognition;Principal component analysis;Image color analysis;Image recognition;Indexes;Nose},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915498&isnumber=7912587

A. N. K. Reddy, P. Verma, S. N. Khonina, M. Hashemi and M. Martinez-Corral, "Far-field light imaging in the presence of atmospheric turbulence with rotating anti-phase apertures: Theoretical investigation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1008-1012.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915499
Abstract: We investigated the diffraction of far-field light objects in the presence of turbulence formed by an optical system with a rotating anti-phase mask. This mask facilitates to detect the position of faint companion in every direction around the bright companion. In the presence of atmospheric turbulence, diffraction images of distant objects are beyond the diffraction limits, the proposed phase shift mask has a merit to compensate the turbulence results high contrast astronomical imaging under partially coherent light illumination and it is proficient to increase the resolution limits in a Sparrow criterion sense. In this approach, we demonstrated the mask fabrication in laboratory conditions for future prospects and analyse the performance by computing the point spread function of the composite image under various considerations analytically.
keywords: {Diffraction;Optical diffraction;Optical imaging;Image resolution;Lighting;Apertures;Coherence;anti-phase apodization;two-point resolution;complex pupils;thin-film deposition;coherence;super-resolution},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915499&isnumber=7912587

Y. Wang, X. Ding, R. Wang, J. Zhang and X. Fu, "Fusion-based underwater image enhancement by wavelet decomposition," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1013-1018.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915500
Abstract: Underwater images suffer from poor visibility due to two main factors: one is the color attenuation caused by light absorption, and the other one is low contrast and blur caused by particles scattering existing in underwater environments. To achieve underwater image enhancement, a fusion-based strategy applied to frequency domain is proposed. The proposed fusion process involves two inputs which are represented as color corrected and contrast enhanced images extracted from original underwater image. Both the color corrected and contrast enhanced images are decomposed into low frequency and high frequency components by three-scale wavelet operator. The low frequency and high frequency components are fused via a multi-scale fusion process. The low frequency components are fused by weighted average, and the high frequency components are fused by local variance. These fused low frequency and high frequency components can be reconstructed as final enhanced image. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm can improve the visibility of underwater images significantly. In addition, the proposed approach arrives a good result in image feature points detection and matching in underwater environments.
keywords: {Image color analysis;Image enhancement;Scattering;Image reconstruction;Absorption;Fuses;Attenuation;Underwater image;Color correction;Contrast enhancement;Wavelet decomposition;Multi-scale fusion},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915500&isnumber=7912587

Z. Liu, W. Siu and J. Huang, "Image super-resolution via weighted random forest," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1019-1023.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915501
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel learning-based image super-resolution via a weighted random forest model (SWRF). The proposed method uses the LR-HR training data to train a random forest model. The underlying idea of this approach is to use several decision trees to classify the training data based on a simple splitting threshold value at each class. A linear regression model is learnt to map the relationship between LR and HR patches. During the up-sampling process, to obtain a more robust super-resolved HR image, instead of averaging the linear regression models from different trees, a biased weighting vector is learnt to adaptively super-resolve the LR image. Furthermore, we improve this proposed image super-resolution method via a weighted random forest model with rotation (SWRF-f) to further improve the super-resolution quality. Sufficient experimental results prove that the proposed approach can achieve the state-of-the-art super-resolution performance with reduced computation time.
keywords: {Image resolution;Decision trees;Training;Training data;Signal resolution;Linear regression;Adaptation models;Image super-resolution;learning;random forest;weighting;rotation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915501&isnumber=7912587

L. Xu, H. Zhang, M. Zhao, D. Chu and Y. Li, "Integrating spectral and spatial features for hyperspectral image classification using low-rank representation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1024-1029.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915502
Abstract: In the fields of remote sensing image processing, hyperspectral image (HSI) classification is a hot topic, which involves computer graphics, statistics, matrix theory and other disciplines. In this study, we prefer to use machine learning classification algorithm (supervised learning or unsupervised learning) to predict under the context of HSI classification. Recently, sparse representation based on dictionary learning has been attracted growing interest in data processing. Low-rank matrix representation (LRR), representative method of sparse representation, is able to decompose the noises contained in HSI from the original data. According to the hypothesis that the adjacent elements in HSI may belong to the same category, the whole image can be divided into groups in advance and we can implemented a LRR for each group separately. By extracting two types of features, spectral and spatial features, we integrate these features into LRR and predict the class of each pixel in the image with a classifier, support vector machine (SVM). Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method on two benchmark datasets.
keywords: {Feature extraction;Kernel;Matrix decomposition;Support vector machines;Dictionaries;Optimization;Electronic mail;hyperspectral image classification;spectral feature;spatial feature;low-rank representation;feature fusion},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915502&isnumber=7912587

T. V. Dittimi, A. K. Hmood and C. Y. Suen, "Multi-class SVM based gradient feature for banknote recognition," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1030-1035.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915503
Abstract: Banknote recognition system is the focus of different image processing and pattern recognition research. With the improvement in modern-day banking operations, automated systems for banknote recognition have become pertinent. Recognition of banknotes is a challenging task as banknotes can suffer from defects and images get distorted during acquisition, which raises the need for a robust recognition system to mitigate these flaws. This research proposes a new banknote recognition approach that classifies the principal components of the extracted Histogram of Gradient feature vectors using an efficient error correcting output code technique based on a Multi-Class Support Vector Machine. The method works on both sides of the bank note and efficiently recognize the denomination based on any side of the bill. The system was implemented using the Nigerian Naira, and for experimental evaluation, additional analysis was conducted using the US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, and Euro banknotes. Finally, the system performance was evaluated based on the recognition rate and processing time.
keywords: {Feature extraction;Support vector machines;Histograms;Pattern recognition;Principal component analysis;Image edge detection;Banknote;Error Correcting Output Code;Histogram of Gradient;Principal Component Analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915503&isnumber=7912587

R. Adamshuk et al., "On the applicability of inverse perspective mapping for the forward distance estimation based on the HSV colormap," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1036-1041.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915504
Abstract: Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS) functionalities present in modern vehicles provide traffic improvement, comfort and safety for drivers, pedestrians, and the environment through the application of electronic, control and software. A digital camera is one of the technologies used in ADAS functions that can be installed in front of the vehicle. The camera acquires video and image in real time to measure the distance between the car and a point or object ahead. However, the problem of perspective effects can be seen in this domain, once the image acquired don't represents the real image due to distortions and errors in the processing stage. Some systems based on video processing require the ego vehicle to the target vehicle distance, as well as traffic signs and venerable obstacles such as pedestrians' distances. The method of Inverse Perspective Mapping (IPM) supports this demand by removing image distortions caused by perspective effect, generating new image coordinates in real-time. This paper presents the IPM and the implementation of a function to identify the distance from an object removing the perspective effect in the HSV colormap. The IPM method has been implemented in a real platform and tested in a vehicle under the road for the validation of its applicability.
keywords: {Roads;Digital cameras;Digital images;Advanced driver assistance systems;Automobiles;Advanced driver assistance system;Inverse perspective mapping;HSV colormap;Digital camera and Distance estimation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915504&isnumber=7912587

H. Liu, S. Liu, Z. Liu, N. Mrad and H. Dong, "Prognostics of damage growth in composite materials using machine learning techniques," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1042-1047.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915505
Abstract: Composite materials have been adopted and become critical in aerospace industry. However, due to the fatigue under continuous loading, the uncertain in structural integrity still remains an unsolved problem. The assessment of structural damage in composite laminates can be achieved by damage location, classification, and quantification. The growth trend of delamination area is one of the most important factors. In order to predict the delamination size efficiently and accurately, this paper proposes a prognostic method based on machine learning techniques. Prediction models, including linear model, support vector machines, and random forests were investigated. An optimal solution was identified by comparing the test results of different models. In this study, the length of the path across delamination area was selected as the objective value to train the models. The path length measurements augmented the training data sets and avoid the overfitting problem for the models. Moreover, the path length can be used to measure the size of delamination area. The interrogation frequency collected on several composite coupons was adopted as an input variable for the predict model. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Delamination;Training;Predictive models;Support vector machines;Vegetation;Aircraft;Inspection;Composite material;Machine learning;Damage prognostics;Lamb wave propagation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915505&isnumber=7912587

J. P. Singh and N. Bouguila, "Proportional data clustering using K-means algorithm: A comparison of different distances," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1048-1052.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915506
Abstract: In this paper, we discuss proportional data clustering. It emerges In many applications such as document clustering and Image classification using bag of visual words approach. When deploying mixture models for clustering, there Is always a problem of initialization, and It Is common to initialize using K-means algorithm. In proposed work, we present K-means clustering approach using different distance metrics. In particular, we propose the consideration of the Altchlson distance. Experimental results are presented using silhouette plots for showing divergence from the center, and confusion matrix Is used to validate our clustering of synthetic and real data sets of Images and texts. The algorithm with Altchlson distance metric results Into lower error rates.
keywords: {Clustering algorithms;Euclidean distance;Mathematical model;Visualization;Algorithm design and analysis;Analytical models;K-means;unsupervised learning;Aitchison distance;clustering},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915506&isnumber=7912587

M. Pathmanathan and L. Peretti, "Real-time signal frequency analysis in variable speed drives using the sparse fast Fourier transform (sFFT)," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1053-1058.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915507
Abstract: This paper investigates the implementation and the use of the sparse fast Fourier transform algorithm in the converter control of a variable speed drive. The algorithm is proposed due to the reduction in computational complexity compared to the conventional fast Fourier transform for the special case of sparse signals. After discussing the theory and a simulation model, experimental results obtained using a field programmable gate array (FPGA) implementation are presented, showing the effectiveness of the proposed solution.
keywords: {Estimation;Frequency estimation;Time-domain analysis;Algorithm design and analysis;Field programmable gate arrays;Discrete Fourier transforms;Signal frequency analysis;FPGA;FFT},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915507&isnumber=7912587

E. Salahat and M. Qasaimeh, "Recent advances in features extraction and description algorithms: A comprehensive survey," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1059-1063.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915508
Abstract: Computer vision is one of the most active research fields in information technology today. Giving machines and robots the ability to see and comprehend the surrounding world at the speed of sight creates endless potential applications and opportunities. Feature detection and description algorithms can be indeed considered as the retina of the eyes of such machines and robots. However, these algorithms are typically computationally intensive, which prevents them from achieving the speed of sight real-time performance. In addition, they differ in their capabilities and some may favor and work better given a specific type of input compared to others. As such, it is essential to compactly report their pros and cons as well as their performances and recent advances. This paper is dedicated to provide a comprehensive overview on the state-of-the-art and recent advances in feature detection and description algorithms. Specifically, it starts by overviewing fundamental concepts. It then compares, reports and discusses their performance and capabilities. The Maximally Stable Extremal Regions algorithm and the Scale Invariant Feature Transform algorithms, being two of the best of their type, are selected to report their recent algorithmic derivatives.
keywords: {Feature extraction;Detectors;Image edge detection;Computer vision;Algorithm design and analysis;Signal processing algorithms;Real-time systems;Computer Vision;Image Processing;Robotics;Feature Detection;Feature Description;MSER;SIFT},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915508&isnumber=7912587

M. Zhao, T. W. S. Chow, H. Zhang and Y. Li, "Rolling fault diagnosis via robust semi-supervised model with capped l2,1-norm regularization," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1064-1069.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915509
Abstract: Rolling element bearings play an important role in ensuring the availability of industrial machines. Unexpected bearing failures in such machines during field operation can lead to machine breakdown, which may have some pretty severe implications. However, the insufficiency of labeled samples is major problem for handling fault diagnosis problem. To address such concern, we propose a semi-supervised method for diagnosing faulty bearings by utilizing unlabeled samples. The superiority of our algorithm has been validated by comparison with other state-of art methods based on a rolling element bearing data. The two-dimensional visualization and classification accuracy of bearing data show that our algorithm is able to recognize different bearing fault categories effectively. Thus, it can be considered as a promising method for fault diagnosis.
keywords: {Robustness;Manifolds;Fault diagnosis;Semisupervised learning;Electronic mail;Rolling bearings;Fault Diagnosis;Semi-supervised Learning;Capped ℓ2, 1-Norm},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915509&isnumber=7912587

G. Monte, J. I. Pastore, V. Bailarin, D. Marasco and P. Liscovsky, "Smoke detection using simplified descriptors of video information," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1070-1075.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915510
Abstract: Automatic visual detection of smoke in confined or open spaces is overriding to issue early warnings that can save lives or prevent irreparable damage. While fire presents a range of characteristic colour, smoke does not present a readily apparent pattern. Changes its shape, does not contain clear edges, presents a chaotic behaviour and colour manifests from white to black, including all nuances. This paper presents an algorithm that efficiently pre-process a frame that extracts the main component of information, decreasing orders of magnitude the source size. From this new structure, algorithms based on the temporal and spatial change of subsets of the new structure are applied. Decision is based on fusion of weak classifiers. The algorithms are described and validated with experimental results of real-time detection for open and confined spaces, considering simplicity and efficiency of the proposed method suitable for embedded systems.
keywords: {Estimation;Fires;Classification algorithms;Algorithm design and analysis;Interpolation;Real-time systems;Inference algorithms;smoke detection;real time;embedded systems;video processing;image representation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915510&isnumber=7912587

H. Orii, S. Tsuji, T. Kouda and T. Kohama, "Tactile texture recognition using convolutional neural networks for time-series data of pressure and 6-axis acceleration sensor," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1076-1080.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915511
Abstract: Tactile texture is an important factor to determine to impression of an object. To measure a feeling of an object, a numerical evaluation method for tactile texture is required. In this paper, we propose a novel recognition method for tactile texture using deep convolutional neural networks. In proposed framework, the tactile texture information is obtained by analyzing a time-series data of a pressure sensor and 6-axis acceleration sensor. Thus, the system configuration is simple, and it is possible to construct the system inexpensively.
keywords: {Biological neural networks;Neurons;Acceleration;Pressure sensors;Mathematical model;Feature extraction},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915511&isnumber=7912587

S. Chen, M. Wu, Y. An, J. Song and M. Tian, "The demodulation algorithm of track frequency shift signal based on windowed interpolation FFT," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1081-1084.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915512
Abstract: The track frequency shift signal is closely related to the safe operation of railway locomotives. This paper presents a real - time modified FFT algorithm for the demodulation of rail track frequency shift signal, which can solve the low frequency resolution and serious spectrum leakage in traditional FFT algorithm. Firstly, The sampling frequency is determined by bandpass sampling. Then, FFT algorithm with Manning window is designed. At the same time, polynomial approximation method is used to estimate the frequency and amplitude of the signal by using the maximum amplitude of two spectrum lines near the detection frequency, which corrects the spectrum leakage phenomenon when calculating the frequency shift signal by FFT. Finally, the simulation is carried out on MATLAB, and the experiment is carried out with DSP. The results show that the improved FFT algorithm can improve the accuracy and real-time of track frequency shift signal detection.
keywords: {Decision support systems;Track frequency shift signal;FFT;Hanning window;Amplitude correction},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915512&isnumber=7912587

B. S. Oboh and N. Bouguila, "Unsupervised learning of finite mixtures using scaled dirichlet distribution and its application to software modules categorization," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1085-1090.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915513
Abstract: We have designed and implemented an unsupervised learning algorithm for finite mixture model using the scaled Dirichlet distribution for multivariate proportional data. In this paper, the task of learning finite mixture model involves estimation of model parameters as well as inferring the hidden class information of our observed data. We made use of the expectation maximization algorithm to find the maximum likelihood estimate of our model parameters. This work, aims to address the flexibility challenge of the Dirichlet distribution by introducing a distribution that adds to it a scale parameter. This is important, because there is growing need for models that can fully describe the intrinsic nature of datasets. In addition, we applied our learning algorithm to synthetic datasets as well as to address the challenge of detecting fault prone software modules. Our proposed algorithm, makes it possible to discover these fault prone modules by harnessing their complexity-based attribute information. Finally, we compare our proposed model classification results with those from the Gaussian and Dirichlet mixture models.
keywords: {Mixture models;Maximum likelihood estimation;Computational modeling;Data models;Shape;Clustering algorithms;Newton method;Data clustering;Mixture models;Scaled Dirichlet distribution;Unsupervised learning;Software modules categorization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915513&isnumber=7912587

P. P. Dash, A. Wong and A. Mishra, "VeNICE: A very deep neural network approach to no-reference image assessment," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1091-1096.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915514
Abstract: Image Quality Assessment (IQA) remains a complex and challenging problem that has garnered great interest by the research community as well as industry. A majority of no-reference IQA metrics leverage handcrafted features which discriminates distortions from true image structures. Recently, deep neural networks (DNN) has been successfully applied on local image patches to estimate image quality, However, existing patch-based IQA approaches require manual patch selection processes as well as possesses high computational complexity. To mitigate such issues, this paper introduces a very-deep no-reference image condition evaluator (VeNICE), which leverages the power of deep learning using very deep neural networks to model the complex relationship between visual content and the perceived quality in a more global manner compared to existing patched-based methods. VeNICE leverages a very deep convolutional neural network architecture with intrinsic image decomposition capabilities, and is trained to learn to assess image quality based on training samples consisting of different distortions and degradation such as blur, Gaussian noise, and compression artifacts. Experimental results using the TID-2008 and LIVE r2 benchmark image quality datasets demonstrates that VeNICE was able to achieve strong quality prediction performance, being able to achieve similar performance as full-reference IQA methods.
keywords: {Image quality;Neural networks;Degradation;Feature extraction;Distortion;Training;Machine learning},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915514&isnumber=7912587

"Industrial automation, communication and informatics," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1097-1098.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915515
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915515&isnumber=7912587

H. -Y. Park, B. -H. Lee, J. -H. Son and H. -S. Ahn, "A comparison of neural network-based methods for load forecasting with selected input candidates," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1100-1105.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915516
Abstract: Accurate models for electric power load forecasting are essential to the operation and planning of the electricity in the energy management system(EMS). In the economic dispatch problem, load forecasting helps an electric utility to make important decisions including the battery charging schedule and the generation of electric power. This paper considers several methods for load forecasting based on the neural networks by using selected input candidates. The input variables are analyzed on the characteristic of correlation between weather data and an electrical load. We compare three neural network-based models for predicting the electrical load as follows : Feed Forward Neural Network model(FFNN), Recurrent Neural Network model(RNN) and Neural Network-based nonlinear autoregressive exogenous model(NARX). The subject of load forecasts is the building of the department of mechanical engineering in GIST, Gwangju, Republic of Korea in 2014. Under the proposed models, the predicted load data could be obtained from the selected input data. The simulation results are compared to each model and it shows that the predicted data is accurate and effective.
keywords: {Load modeling;Predictive models;Biological neural networks;Load forecasting;Meteorology;Energy management;Input variables},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915516&isnumber=7912587

E. Trunzer, I. Kirchen, J. Folmer, G. Koltun and B. Vogel-Heuser, "A flexible architecture for data mining from heterogeneous data sources in automated production systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1106-1111.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915517
Abstract: Data heterogeneity and proprietary interfaces present a major challenge for big data analytics. The data generated from a multitude of sources has to be aggregated and integrated first before being evaluated. To overcome this, an automated integration of this data and its provisioning via defined interfaces in a generic data format could greatly reduce the effort for an efficient collection and preparation of data for data analysis in automated production systems. Besides, the sharing of specific data with customers and suppliers, as well as near real-time processing of data can boost the information gain from analysis. Existing approaches for automatic data integration lack the fulfillment of all these requirements. On this basis, a flexible architecture is proposed, which simplifies data integration, handling and sharing of data over organizational borders. Special focus is put on the ability to process near real-time data which is common in the field of automated production systems. An evaluation with technical experts from the field of automation was carried out by adapting the generic concept for specific use cases. The evaluation showed that the proposed architecture could overcome the disadvantages of current systems and reduce the effort spent on data integration. Therefore, the proposed architecture can be an enabler for automated data analysis of distributed data from sources with heterogeneous data formats in automated production systems.
keywords: {Data models;Tools;Data mining;Computer architecture;Real-time systems;Data integration;Production systems;Automated production systems (aPS);cyber-physical systems (CPS);data handling;data mining;data processing;knowledge management;middleware},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915517&isnumber=7912587

N. Ericsson, T. Lennvall, J. Åkerberg and M. Björkman, "A flexible communication stack design for time sensitive embedded systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1112-1117.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915518
Abstract: Trends like Internet of Things (IoT), 5G and Cloud are pushing for device connectivity to the Internet, which affects industrial embedded systems with e.g., an increase in code base and functionality. Due to different application requirements, there are relative little reuse between embedded systems with different run-time context (from super loop to multi-threaded), and different types of communication (best effort and real time). In order to improve code reuse and changeability, we propose a flexible communication stack design, that can be configured for time sensitive communication with a real-time operating system (RTOS), or configured for best effort communication with either a super loop or an operating system (OS). Experiments demonstrate the flexibility and simplicity of the design with different configurations, e.g., super loop, single threaded, multi-threaded. Measurements show that the variations in performance related to run-time context scales as expected.
keywords: {Message systems;Context;Real-time systems;Instruction sets;Time division multiple access;Embedded systems;Timing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915518&isnumber=7912587

P. G. Bigvand and A. Fay, "A workflow support system for the process and automation engineering of production plants," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1118-1123.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915519
Abstract: This paper describes a novel approach for systematic support of engineers using model-driven system architectures for process and automation engineering of plants. We explored a new aspect of engineering virtual smart objects in plant data-models which is object's lifeflow. In principle, lifeflow is the dynamic and adaptive answer to the question of “what happens?” to each engineering object, in its actual and live context, at each engineering phase. We provided a methodology that gives users the possibility of defining a lifeflow for object classes depending on the context and targets of projects, and consequently, each virtual object instance based on its defined lifeflow is individually aware of its state, maturity and next steps that it has to go through. By using the lifeflow backbone, engineers could get valuable case dependent support to bring engineering objects to their next steps of maturity and eventually build up the optimal data model of the plant in a collaborative and agile design environment. Also, project managers can achieve a realtime view of the overall project maturity in different phases. Multiple empirical studies and analysis of actual conventional workflows have been performed in order to reach a reliable library of lifeflows for object classes. Additionally, prototypic workflow support tools based on object's lifeflows and a dashboard for project state view and tasks management have been implemented and in a pilot project, feasibility of the new concept was verified.
keywords: {Data models;Valves;Decision support systems;Shape;Automation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915519&isnumber=7912587

S. Kranzer et al., "An intelligent maintenance planning framework prototype for production systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1124-1129.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915520
Abstract: The Intelligent Maintenance Planner (IMP) is designed to automate and improve maintenance processes in industrial applications. The system tracks the entire process cycle beginning with data acquisition and management, it then detects and classifies failure states, initializes maintenance cases, and selects and assigns the required resources. IMP guides maintenance work processes, by automatically providing instructions and augmented reality information. Subsequent feedback of the maintenance process and new or updated information is added to the system and used to train selection algorithms. A prototype of IMP was implemented based on an industrial SCADA system and cloud solutions for storage and machine learning capabilities. This report explains the stages of the maintenance process and provides an outline of the implementation and project results.
keywords: {Maintenance engineering;Planning;Augmented reality;SCADA systems;Job shop scheduling;Sensors;Optimal scheduling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915520&isnumber=7912587
A. U. Haq, T. Kriechbaumer, M. Kahl and H. -A. Jacobsen, "CLEAR — A circuit level electric appliance radar for the electric cabinet," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1130-1135.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915521
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a cost-effective hardware design for acquiring high-resolution energy data from electricity mains to observe appliance switching transients. By utilizing these distinct appliance switching transients, we are interested to predict all appliances operating in a building and also estimate their power consumption. The proposed design fulfills the data acquisition requirements for effective appliance identification from aggregate load signals. Due to its unique and customizable features, the circuit level electric appliance radar (CLEAR) is capable of operating in multiple environments (residential, commercial, and industrial). CLEAR can simultaneously measure voltage and current data streams from a three-phase system at up to 250 kHz to accurately pinpoint individual appliance switching. The first prototype is installed in an office building to collect office level aggregate data. With this aggregate data, the main challenge lies in detecting and isolating similar appliance switching events from switched-mode power supplies (SMPS) utilized by most office appliances such as laptops, LCDs, and printers.
keywords: {Home appliances;Data acquisition;Voltage measurement;Switches;Current measurement;Monitoring;Feature extraction;Data acquisition (DAQ);disaggregation;event detection;non-intrusive load monitoring},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915521&isnumber=7912587

E. Lisova, E. Uhlemann, J. Åkerberg and M. Björkman, "Delay attack versus clock synchronization — A time chase," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1136-1141.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915522
Abstract: Clock synchronization is one of the most essential assets for distributed real-time systems, as sensing, control and actuation require synchronized communication to meet real-time deadlines. We propose a distributed monitoring method to detect if an adversary is interfering with the clock synchronization protocol. The monitor uses certain network indicators and a set of rules to decide about switching between Normal, Quarantine or Attack Detected states. Further, we propose a way to define thresholds for decision-making based on theoretical analysis of the indicator values influenced by an attack. In addition, we formulate the problem of adversary influence detection in the network as a detection theory problem and use it to derive an additional indicator for the network monitor. Finally, we analyze the time chase between the monitor and an adversary to investigate which factors influence the final outcome.
keywords: {Monitoring;Delays;Synchronization;Clocks;Standards;Real-time systems;Security},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915522&isnumber=7912587

L. S. Mendonça, D. D. Luceiro, M. E. S. Martins and F. E. Bisogno, "Development of an engine control unit: Implementation of the architecture of tasks," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1142-1146.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915523
Abstract: Electronic devices in automotive area have been used on large scale and a control unit is mandatory for greater engine efficiency. By performing the spark advance and injection timing correctly in internal-combustion engines, an engine control unit improves drivability and helps to reduce fuel consumption. This paper presents an automotive engine control unit development considering the architecture of tasks. Flowcharts for the algorithms are proposed. The results can be used for an electronic control unit firmware development, also, experimental results using a microcontroller and a JimStim board are presented to validate the theoretical approach.
keywords: {Engines;Sparks;Sensors;Timing;Microcontrollers;Wheels;Flowcharts;engine control unit;internal-combustion engine;electronic control unit},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915523&isnumber=7912587

Y. Yang, Y. Chen and J. Yang, "Development of the cross-linked integrated information system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1147-1152.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915524
Abstract: With the constant demand of strict quality control and efficient inspection, there are a number of automatic inspection systems installed in the distributed production lines. In order to solve numerous cross-process quality analysis problems, a cross-linked integrated information system was developed by China Steel Corporation (CSC). The system has three main functions, such as single coil integrating information query, by rolling sequence quality analysis and dynamic analysis. The range of data covers host data, quality statistical data of production lines, and various kinds of automatic surface inspection system (ASIS) data and images. This makes the quality analysis of coils from the upper process lines to the lower ones much easier and more efficient. There were several successful applications achieved by using this system, such as strip thickness profile unqualified causing mechanism clarification, new product physical property analysis, steelmaking shell defects and hot-rolled scratch defects development tracking, etc. With this system, the quality management skill of CSC was improved tremendously.
keywords: {Decision support systems;cross-process;integrated information system;inspection application;quality analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915524&isnumber=7912587

T. Schulz, F. Golatowski and D. Timmermann, "Evaluation of a formalized encryption library for safety-critical embedded systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1153-1158.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915525
Abstract: Complex safety-critical devices require dependable communication. Dependability includes confidentiality and integrity as much as safety. Encrypting gateways with demilitarized zones, Multiple Independent Levels of Security architectures and the infamous Air Gap are diverse integration patterns for safety-critical infrastructure. Though resource restricted embedded safety devices still lack simple, certifiable, and efficient cryptography implementations. Following the recommended formal methods approach for safety-critical devices, we have implemented proven cryptography algorithms in the qualified model based language Scade as the Safety Leveraged Implementation of Data Encryption (SLIDE) library. Optimization for the synchronous dataflow language is discussed in the paper. The implementation for public-key based encryption and authentication is evaluated for real-world performance. The feasibility is shown by execution time benchmarks on an industrial safety microcontroller platform running a train control safety application.
keywords: {Safety;Libraries;Encryption;Software;Optimization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915525&isnumber=7912587

B. Brandenbourger, M. Vathoopan and A. Zoitl, "Generating metamodel-based descriptions of automation components in AutomationML," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1159-1164.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915526
Abstract: The variability of modern automation systems is getting the key factor in determining the efficiency in manufacturing. The modularity of the employed automation components contributes significantly to the level of variability by enabling multiple compositions of automation components. In order to enable a high modularity, each automation component should be modeled as an integrated mechatronic model containing information from different disciplines. This paper describes a recursive concept allowing the structured generation of manufacturer-specific models of automation components. The concept is based on a metamodel in AutomationML and implemented in a prototypical tool for evaluation purposes.
keywords: {Object oriented modeling;Automation;Stakeholders;Adaptation models;Data models;Mechatronics;Tools},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915526&isnumber=7912587

M. Engelsberger and T. Greiner, "Handling strategy of dynamic resource events in cyber-physical production systems by a multi-criterial and multi-operational approach," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1165-1170.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915527
Abstract: This paper proposes a handling strategy for dynamic resource events in Cyber-Physical Production Systems (CPPS). Because of the increasing complexity and the dynamic run-time behavior, future automation systems become more and more fragile. New methods are needed to deal with such a dynamic behavior, exploiting existing degrees of freedom. Currently, existing methods are limited to single resource operations and/or single-criteria metrics. The contribution of this work is a new approach for the dynamic management of resource events within CPPS. Therefore, a multi-criterial and multi-operational method is introduced. The proposed metric covers functional and nonfunctional properties and can easily be adapted to an application's needs. The concept is evaluated by an application example from the field of process engineering. Quantitative results are gained by the simulative part of a CPPS-middleware prototype for physical as well as cyber resource events. The results show that the method is able to gain a higher requirement fulfillment under dynamic conditions than unmanaged concepts do.
keywords: {Measurement;Dynamic scheduling;Data structures;Production systems;Process control;Bipartite graph;Computational modeling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915527&isnumber=7912587

M. Yamamoto and Y. Takahiro, "Integration of existing ethernet devices into time-division-multiplexing ethernet," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1171-1176.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915528
Abstract: Along with the development of industrial systems, real-time Ethernet (RTE) is widely utilized for control systems. S-TDMA is one of the RTE protocols, and it is a concept realizing a coexistence of real-time and best-effort communication over the Ethernet by time-division multiplexing. In previous work, a special switching hub capable of S-TDMA was implemented, and the capability of real-time communication on multi-hop topology was shown. It is expected to apply S-TDMA for the Internet; it is not practical that all nodes in the network support S-TDMA. Therefore, this paper proposes the integration method of existing Ethernet devices into S-TDMA network by using a pause frame. The performance of best-effort traffic between these devices over S-TDMA network was evaluated. The results verify the superiority of the proposed method. The proposed design greatly suppressed the performance deterioration of best-effort traffic. The throughput of the proposed method was 670 Mbps higher than that of the previous implementation at the effective bandwidth of 950 Mbps. The results also show the comparable performance, even if the number of hops has increased.
keywords: {Time division multiple access;Synchronization;Delays;Ports (Computers);Switches;Protocols},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915528&isnumber=7912587

G. D. Koltun, S. Feldmann, D. Schütz and B. Vogel-Heuser, "Model-document coupling in aPS engineering: Challenges and requirements engineering use case," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1177-1182.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915529
Abstract: Especially due to the ever-increasing complexity of automated production systems, model-based systems engineering (MBSE) is gaining more and more importance. Nevertheless, system models do not stand for themselves - rather, they are related to a multitude of engineering documents such as requirements specification documents, CAD drawings or electric circuit diagrams. Especially for practical applications, it is therefore essential to couple system models with such engineering documents. As a basis to overcome this issue, this paper proposes a concept for coupling models and documents in automated production systems at the example of requirements engineering models. The concept envisions an automatic generation process from such models to textual Functional Specification Documents (FSDs), which are often used throughout negotiation between manufacturers and customers. Changes to such FSDs, e.g. made via PDF annotation tools, are then propagated back to the respective models. We envision the concept to be a basis for future extensions that aim at improving current MBSE approaches to make them more productive and attractive for practical applications during engineering of automated production systems.
keywords: {Solid modeling;Unified modeling language;Object oriented modeling;Couplings;Integrated circuit modeling;Requirements engineering;Automated Production Systems;Model-Based Systems Engineering;Model-Document Coupling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915529&isnumber=7912587

L. Horváth, "New method for definition of organized driving chains in industrial product model," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1183-1188.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915530
Abstract: In this paper, novel method is introduced to establish content driving of engineering model entity definition and generation at computer description and representation of multidisciplinary industrial product system. Main objective of this work was developing new structure of driving content which made construction of requirements, functional, logical, and physical (RFLP) structured product model easier. For this purpose, the formerly developed initiative (I), behavior (B), context (C), and action (A) content structure was restructured and completed into the IBCA+ structure at the Laboratory of Intelligent Engineering Systems, Óbuda University. Content entity in its actual definition describes a set contexts which are required to consider at definition and generation of a given RFLP structure entity. Restructuring IBCA for IBCA+ also took connection with entities in intellectual property (IP) organizations into account preparing future main source of content. Multilevel content structure was conceptualized for contextual aspects of IP entity to establish IP driving of IBCA+ structure. Results of work in this paper were aimed at produce new contribution to application developments of RFLP structure enabled industrial engineering modeling systems. Configuration, definition, and programming capabilities are available for this purpose in these systems.
keywords: {Context;Object oriented modeling;Context modeling;Intellectual property;Organizations;Computational modeling;modeling of product as system;driving information content;IBCA+ driving content structure;intellectual property;contextual modeling of engineering structures},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915530&isnumber=7912587

K. A. Maria, Y. Nagao, L. Lanante, M. Kurosaki and H. Ochi, "Re-transmission diversity with fast channel selectivity for reliable industrial WLAN system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1189-1194.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915531
Abstract: This paper proposes a fast and low-complexity retransmission scheme for Industrial WLAN system. The proposed scheme exploits the frequency diversity and employs channel selectivity in order to achieve high-reliability and low-latency communication. The channel selectivity is carried out instantly by re-scheduling sub-carrier allocation during OFDM transmission in order to obtain diversity gain. Evaluation results show that the performance of the proposed scheme in terms of system-error rate and achievable transmission throughput rate, are significantly improved from the conventional re-transmission scheme. Furthermore, the proposed method only need a minor modification in both of communication protocol and transceiver design from the existing Industrial WLAN system. Hence, the low-complexity transmission scheme could be realized in current OFDM-based wireless system.
keywords: {Bandwidth;Protocols;Reliability;OFDM;Transceivers;Wireless communication;Wireless LAN;Fast Re-transmission;Channel selectivity;Frequency diversity;Industrial WLAN},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915531&isnumber=7912587

B. Wang, L. Wang, X. Nie and J. Song, "Research and design of MVB bus administrator based on SOPC technology," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1195-1198.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915532
Abstract: Bus Administrator capability is the key characteristic of MVB Class 4 Device, which is the main equipment in the MVB network. A novel MVB Bus Administrator Controller design method based on the SOPC technology is presented, which each function is realized by the Nios II application software. Finally, the performance of the Bus Administrator is evaluated in the TCN hardware-in-loop simulation platform in lab and the results indicate that the design accorded with IEC61375 protocol. This design also has been applied to the Distributed Locomotive Fault Detecting and Recording System, and it has reached the expectation of design. This work has great significance for promoting China's train network construction and the localization of locomotive.
keywords: {Ports (Computers);Random access memory;Field programmable gate arrays;Transceivers;Design methodology;Fault detection;Communication networks;Train Communication Network;MVB Bus Administrator;SOPC;FPGA},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915532&isnumber=7912587

A. Ismail and W. Kastner, "Surveying the features of industrial SOAs," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1199-1204.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915533
Abstract: Over the previous years, many service-oriented (SO) solutions have been proposed by European research projects for the technological advancement of industrial systems. These projects typically include a software reference architecture (RA) based on the concepts of service-oriented architectures (SOA) and, often-times, an accompanying technology stack to guarantee system-wide interoperability. In this paper, we survey and outline the specific approaches, standards, and specifications applied by five such projects in their pursuit of SO solutions to specific manufacturing and production problems.
keywords: {Computer architecture;Protocols;Software;Standards;Concrete;XML;Unified modeling language},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915533&isnumber=7912587

M. Vathoopan, B. Brandenbourger, A. George and A. Zoitl, "Towards an integrated plant engineering process using a data conversion tool for AutomationML," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1205-1210.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915534
Abstract: The development process of modern automated manufacturing plants requires a concurrent engineering process that integrates different engineering disciplines. Envisioning a concurrent development process, we propose an engineering process based on an AutomationML metamodel. The proposed metamodel contains standardized mechatronic component models, which acts as the base engineering data for the disciplines and the tools involved in the process. Since the tools operate on discipline-specific data structures, a data conversion tool is introduced which parses AutomationML mechatronic model and produces specific data interpretable by the tool employed. The benefits of this approach are evaluated by generating an automation project in CODESYS Application Composer, employing the metamodel and data conversion tool with the proposed engineering process.
keywords: {Tools;Mechatronics;Stakeholders;Data models;Automation;Solid modeling;Software},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915534&isnumber=7912587

R. Feio, J. Rosas and L. Gomes, "Translating IOPT Petri net models into PLC ladder diagrams," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1211-1216.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915535
Abstract: We present a set of rules allowing the translation of IOPT Petri net models into IEC 61131-3 Ladder diagram amenable to be deployed into industrial PLCs (Programmable Logic Controllers), as well as other automation systems. An application example is used to illustrate the development flow as well as the effectiveness of the approach.
keywords: {Decision support systems;IOPT nets;Petri nets;ladder diagrams;IEC 61131-3;Programmable Logic Controllers},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915535&isnumber=7912587

E. Salahat and M. Qasaimeh, "Unified analytical modeling of the error rates and the ergodic channel capacity in η-μ generalized fading channels with integer μ and maximal ratio combining receiver," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1217-1221.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915536
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a novel performance analysis of the η-μ generalized radio fading channels with integer value of the μ fading parameter, i.e. with even number of multipath clusters. This fading model includes other fading models as special cases such as the Nakagami-rn, the Hoyt, and the Rayleigh. We obtain novel unified and generic simple closed-form expressions for the average bit error rates and ergodic channel capacity in the additive white generalized Gaussian noise (AWGGN), which includes the additive Gaussian, the gamma, the Laplacian, and the impulsive noise as special cases. The receiver is assumed to be an L-branch maximal ratio combiner where we study the effect of having more deployed receiver antenna. Numerical evaluation as well as results from technical wireless literature validate the generality and the accuracy of the derived unified expressions under the studied test cases.
keywords: {Wireless communication;Rayleigh channels;Signal to noise ratio;Modulation;Channel capacity;Receivers;η-μ fading;ABER;ACC;Generalized Gaussian Noise;Unified Expressions;Maximal Ratio Combining},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915536&isnumber=7912587

"Cloud computing, data analytics, and software engineering," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1222-1224.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915537
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915537&isnumber=7912587

M. Kiermeier, M. Werner, C. Linnhoff-Popien, H. Sauer and J. Wieghardt, "Anomaly detection in self-organizing industrial systems using pathlets," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1226-1231.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915538
Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel anomaly detection method which addresses the main challenge of self-organizing industrial systems: the state space explosion. In particular, the flexibility and dynamic nature of such systems result in an exponentially growing number of possible execution plans. To handle this problem, we propose to learn the underlying topology, instead of storing whole paths a work-piece can take through the factory. Therefore, we use the concept of pathlet learning. With it, the topology is represented by a pathlet dictionary, which contains significant sub-paths which have been extracted in a pre-processing step from a training data set. These sub-paths can then be used to evaluate at runtime the incoming trajectories. We show that with this approach we are able to detect both, global anomalous events, like the fail of a production station, as well as single anomalous trajectories, e.g. work-pieces which moves out of the known paths.
keywords: {Trajectory;Dictionaries;Training data;Data models;Production facilities;Topology},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915538&isnumber=7912587

G. Maji, S. Mandal, S. Bhattacharya and S. Sen, "Designing combo recharge plans for telecom subscribers using itemset mining technique," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1232-1237.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915539
Abstract: Customer retention in Telecom market is a big research challenge in developed as well as developing economies as the market is almost saturated as well as competitive with large number of local and global service providers. It is also well known that from business point of view retaining an existing customer is much less costly than acquiring a new one. Hence retaining existing customer by making them loyal is crucial for the sake of existence of the telecom providers. Customers can be made loyal by making them satisfied customers. One of the important factors that make a customer satisfied is the value for money as well as proper prepaid recharge plans that will suit their requirements. An association based rule mining model is proposed in this research work to enable telecom operators to choose proper recharge combo plans that will be mostly appropriate for the customers. The main objective of this analysis is to identify the frequent recharge-types (itemset) based on the support and confidence value from recharge history dataset. This will allow telecom providers to focus on creating combo plans by aggregating the mostly used service-categories.
keywords: {Data mining;Telecommunication services;Itemsets;History;Data models;Social network services;customer retention;prepaid churn;apriori algorithm;association rule mining;frequent item set},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915539&isnumber=7912587

S. Bhattacharya, A. Roy, S. Sen and N. C. Debnath, "Distributed data recovery architecture based on schema segregation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1238-1243.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915540
Abstract: The growing importance of huge amount of data and the data analysis for business agility has prophesied managerial decisions to ensure data security and disaster recovery options. This growing dependency has triggered extensive storage of data and development of `high availability' databases. One of the prevalent practices in the industry is to provide for a data center (DC) where the on-going service runs under normal circumstances and another server at Disaster Recovery Center (DR) that contains a replica of the database to provide continuity of service if the primary database fails due to a catastrophe or some other unavoidable reasons. Such situation may cause the database server to be damaged or result in a hardware malfunction. In this paper, we propose a decentralized disaster recovery structure instead of a single centralized DR, i.e. the databases are hosted on multiple servers, where each of these servers is catering to one or more related schema. Since we have multiple servers each catering for a different schema, we also propose different replication schemes for each of these schemas depending on the nature of updates and usage. In the proposed architecture, we would like to have a cyclic back up scheme to provide better decentralization and less vulnerable as opposed to a radial back up architectures.
keywords: {Servers;Organizations;Distributed databases;Hardware;Standards organizations;Business continuity;Disaster Recovery Centre;Data centre;CPU idleness;Decentralized system;Query Forwarding},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915540&isnumber=7912587

S. Ayyaz and U. Qamar, "Improving collaborative filtering by selecting an effective user neighborhood for recommender systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1244-1249.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915541
Abstract: In the last two decades, the increase in the amount of information available online have resulted in an information overload problem making it very complex for users to get the useful information they require within time. A recommender system helps customer to make useful decisions about products they wants to purchase thus providing better customer satisfaction which is vital in online environments such as ecommerce systems. Collaborative Filtering (CF) is one of the most significantly used method for generating recommendations for users. Collaborative Filtering depends on selecting a subset of users called user neighborhood for filtering recommendations for current user. In this paper, we have presented an algorithm that uses collaborative filtering for providing recommendations to a user by selecting an optimal neighborhood. The experiments are conducted by selecting two different neighborhoods; k-nearest neighbors and threshold-based neighbors. Results are generated by selecting different number of neighbors and selecting different threshold values for neighbors and generating recommendations. The results are compared in order to get the neighborhood which give the least error and better recommendation quality than others. The experiments are carried out using MovieLens data set with 1M ratings.
keywords: {Collaboration;Recommender systems;Mathematical model;Correlation;Measurement;Training data;recommender system;collaborative filtering;recommendations;k-nearest neighbors;threshold-based neighbors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915541&isnumber=7912587

S. Chala and M. Fathi, "Job seeker to vacancy matching using social network analysis," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1250-1255.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915542
Abstract: Social network analysis is the investigation of social structures by using methods such as graph theory and machine learning. Social networks characterize networked structures in terms of nodes (i.e., individuals) and their relationships to each other as acquaintances, colleagues, collaborators and/or classmates. Through these relationships, one can find their ties with their connections, professions, and the degree of the ties. Networking sites such as LinkedIn® and Researchgate® also contain more information of the knowledge of connections about the skill of an individual. The purpose of this study is to identify methods that measure the skills, expertise and experience of a job seeker and to investigate importance of using social networking data as input to user modeling that determines the strength of skills to be used for recommending matching job vacancies. Result of preliminary experiment using social network data in skill measurement shows consistent improvement in accuracy of matching job seekers to vacancies.
keywords: {Weight measurement;Recruitment;Feature extraction;LinkedIn;Qualifications;Social Network Analysis;Job Seeker Modeling;Vacancy Recommendation;Skill Weighting;Matching},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915542&isnumber=7912587

L. Neto, J. Reis, R. Silva and G. Gonçalves, "Sensor SelComp, a smart component for the industrial sensor cloud of the future," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1256-1261.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915543
Abstract: Industrial Internet of Thing's will pave the way for Smart Manufacturing initiatives. Intelligence will be notices even in fine grained devices, resulting in complex but at the same time highly efficient manufacturing systems. The typical field worker job will be replaced by machines and human intervention will be shifted to supervision jobs. This work presents Sensor SelComp, a Smart Component which will act in the factory shop-floor, creating the so called digital twin's of machine's by means of sensors and exposing it's functionalities as services. This component is a building block of the SelSus project vision, whose aim is to create and highly effective self-healing production environment. This component eases the process of sensor integration and data analysis by offering runtime reconfiguration and data processing capabilities. Along this document it is shown that Sensor SelComp can cope with tight industrial functional requirements and it's functionalities are described in detail.
keywords: {Data processing;Cloud computing;Runtime;Wireless sensor networks;Java;Production;Smart Component;Industrial Sensor Cloud (ISC);Industrial Wireless Sensor Network (IWSN);Software Reconfiguration;Industrial Cyber Physical Systems(ICPS);Industrial Internet of Thing's (IIoT)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915543&isnumber=7912587

"Industrial wireless networking," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1262-1264.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915544
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915544&isnumber=7912587

G. von Zengen, K. Garlichs, Y. Schrcöder and L. C. Wolf, "A sub-microsecond clock synchronization protocol for wireless industrial monitoring and control networks," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1266-1270.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915545
Abstract: Wireless networks are getting more and more important to industrial process monitoring in control. One of the key challenges in these domains is clock synchronization. Needed to be able to link data gathered on different devices in the network. More recently the idea of wireless closed loop controllers rose. With that even more precise clock synchronization is needed. In this paper we propose a protocol capable of sub-microsecond synchronization and clock drift compensation. The proposed protocol is inspired by the widely used PTP but was optimized for wireless networks. Our real world evaluation indicates, that clock drift is a serious challenge in networks utilizing modern microcontrollers. We also show that our approach is capable of mitigating that drift to reach a competitive degree of synchronicity.
keywords: {Synchronization;Clocks;Protocols;Hardware;Oscillators;Wireless networks},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915545&isnumber=7912587

D. Wang, S. Lee, Y. Zhu and Y. Li, "A zero human-intervention provisioning for industrial IoT devices," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1271-1276.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915546
Abstract: With the rapid development of the Internet of Things (IoT) technologies, IoT devices have been widely deployed. In industrial scenarios, the deployment cost including human operation and time can be increased with the scale of the network because there might be more than thousands of devices that need to be provisioned at the same time. Currently, most systems require human involvement when a newly deployed device is initially connected to a wireless access network such as Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN). In this paper, we propose a state machine based method to control the provisioning process, which calls for zero human intervention. For security reasons, we employ the Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS [1]) protocol and a one-time password-generating method for authentication, in order to prevent unreliable devices from accessing the network. In the performance evaluation, our method can complete the provisioning process within four seconds after the device's boot-up. Compared to legacy methods, our solution can reduce both time and human cost.
keywords: {Authentication;Servers;Interference;Protocols;Performance evaluation;Joining processes},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915546&isnumber=7912587

M. Schneider, J. Rambach and D. Stricker, "Augmented reality based on edge computing using the example of remote live support," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1277-1282.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915547
Abstract: Augmented Reality (AR) introduces vast opportunities to the industry in terms of time and therefore cost reduction when utilized in various tasks. The biggest obstacle for a comprehensive deployment of mobile AR is that current devices still leave much to be desired concerning computational and graphical performance. To improve this situation in this paper we introduce an AR Edge Computing architecture with the aim to offload the demanding AR algorithms over the local network to a high-end PC considering the real-time requirements of AR. As an example use case we implemented an AR Remote Live Support application. Applications like this on the one hand are strongly demanded in the industry at present, on the other hand by now mostly do not implement a satisfying tracking algorithm lacking computational resources. In our work we lay the focus on both, the possibilities our architecture offers regarding improvements of tracking and the challenges it implies in respect of real-time. We found that offloading AR algorithms in real-time is possible with available WiFi making use of standard compression techniques like JPEG. However it can be improved by future radio solutions offering higher bandwidth to avoid additional latency contributed by the coding.
keywords: {Cameras;Servers;Tracking;Edge computing;Streaming media;Augmented reality;Real-time systems;Augmented reality;Industrial WLAN;Wireless Networking;Maintenance engineering;Tracking;Sensor fusion;Edge computing;Distributed computing;Smart industry},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915547&isnumber=7912587

J. Demel, C. Bockelmann and A. Dekorsy, "Evaluation of a software defined GFDM implementation for industry 4.0 applications," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1283-1288.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915548
Abstract: Industry 4.0 (I4.0) closed-loop control applications require ultra low-latency and ultra high reliability. Generalized Frequency Division Multiplexing (GFDM) promises to meet these requirements in conjunction with low Out-Of-Band (OOB) emissions. We present latency measurements of an open-source, modular, portable GFDM software implementation using the GNU Radio framework. The used implementation and its components are investigated regarding their theoretical function. We investigate the usability of the GFDM implementation for Software-Defined Radio (SDR). This is facilitated by benchmarking the various functions with respect to different parameter sets. Thus, we focus on latency measurements which provide reliable figures for SDR system design. Furthermore, we show that low latency broadband SDR systems for I4.0 applications are feasible.
keywords: {Synchronization;Receivers;Modulation;OFDM;Communication systems;Prototypes;Software},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915548&isnumber=7912587

S. R. Panigrahi, N. Bjorsell and M. Bengtsson, "Feasibility of large antenna arrays towards low latency ultra reliable communication," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1289-1294.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915549
Abstract: Industrial automation and safety applications demand low latency and ultra reliable communication. Currently deployed wireless communication technologies are mostly developed for non-critical applications and hence, they are not suitable for these kind of applications. On the other hand, cable based communication is widely popular in industries, even though it has limitations towards cost of installment and is susceptible towards mechanical wear and tear. This paper reviews the feasibility of large antenna arrays at the receiver to achieve low latency and ultra reliable communication for up-link scenarios. The suitability of both coherent and non-coherent multiple input multiple output (MIMO) receivers are investigated. Non-coherent MIMO receiver is found to be a promising option as signal to noise power ratio (SNR) is fairly reasonable in achieving the desired reliability. The effect of antenna correlation at the transmitter and at receiver on reliability are also looked into. Its influence on the system performance is very nominal. Moreover, in certain scenarios, antenna correlation at the transmitter gives a significant improvement in system performance. Furthermore, having a single antenna at the sensors is found not to be a limiting factor in achieving the desired performance goal.
keywords: {MIMO;Reliability;Antenna arrays;Transmitting antennas;Receiving antennas;Signal to noise ratio;5G;ultra reliable communication;MIMO diversity;coherent receiver;non-coherent receiver},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915549&isnumber=7912587

L. Beltramelli, P. Österberg, U. Jennehag and M. Gidlund, "Hybrid MAC mechanism for energy efficient communication in IEEE 802.11ah," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1295-1300.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915550
Abstract: Many applications for machine-to-machine (M2M) communications are characterized by large numbers of devices with sporadic transmissions and subjected to low energy budgets. This work addresses the importance of energy consumption by proposing a new Medium Access Control (MAC) mechanism for improving the energy efficiency of IEEE 802.11ah, a standard targeting M2M communication. We propose to use the features of IEEE 802.11ah MAC to realize a hybrid contention-reservation mechanism for the transmission of uplink traffic. In the proposed mechanism, any device with a buffered packet will first notify the Access Point (AP) during a contention phase before being given a reserved timeslot for the data transmission. We develop a mathematical model to analyse the energy consumption of the proposed mechanism and of IEEE 802.11ah. The results show that for a monitoring scenario, the proposed contentionreservation mechanism reduces the energy consumption for a successful uplink data transmission by up to 55%.
keywords: {Media Access Protocol;Standards;Uplink;Data communication;Machine-to-machine communications;Energy consumption;Mathematical model;Energy efficiency;IEEE 802.11ah;M2M communication;MAC protocol;RAW},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915550&isnumber=7912587

M. Ehrig et al., "Reliable wireless communication and positioning enabling mobile control and safety applications in industrial environments," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1301-1306.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915551
Abstract: This paper introduces new functionalities for industrial safety applications using the wireless infrastructure of the IEEE 802.11 standard. The new amendments (n/ac/ad) for the 2.4, 5, and 60-GHz-band support additional high data rate modes, for e.g. video applications and device-to-device (D2D) communication. The huge bandwidth in the 60-GHz-band enables precise localization. However, Listen-Before-Talk (LBT) has to be used in order to guarantee fair channel access possibilities and coexistence of many devices. The access requirements are regulated (e.g. by ETSI for the European region). To cope with the uncertainty of coexistence and the special channel conditions in an industrial environment a multi-band PHY and MAC solution with multi-link-connectivity (MLC) support is introduced. This enables highly reliable low-latency wireless communication links for industrial safety applications. The simultaneous Round-Trip-Time-of-Flight (RTToF) ranging measurements enable position based features, like the introduced virtual safe zone.
keywords: {Safety;Distance measurement;Reliability;Wireless communication;Mobile communication;Bandwidth;Handover;industrial radio;wireless;communication;mmWave;reliability;low-latency;safety traffic;ToF ranging;localization/positioning;mobility;seamless handover;multi-band;multi-link-connectivity;quality of service;parallel redundancy protocol},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915551&isnumber=7912587

A. Varghese, D. Tandur and A. Ray, "Suitability of WiFi based communication devices in low power industrial applications," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1307-1312.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915552
Abstract: With advancement in the concept of internet of things (IoT), many industrial applications today have migrated from wired to wireless communication protocols. The major requirements of industrial devices utilizing wireless technologies include high performance reliability similar to wired network, and longevity in terms of battery life. Wireless field devices that run on battery should be able to operate for long duration without frequent battery replacement. Industrial use-cases may have varied data rate requirements from very low data rates in the order of few kilo bits per second, to upwards of hundreds of kilo bits per second or may be in mega bits per second. Thus depending on the use-case one should select a suitable wireless technology that can address the requirements. While there exists a number of alternative technologies that offer very low data rate along with long battery life usage, the number of technologies offering medium to higher data rates along with long battery life are limited. WiFi or IEEE 802.11b/g standard is typically considered to be energy hungry solution, however due to the advancements in implementation technology, some of these radio devices exhibit very low power consumption during non-active states, and thus can be utilized in industrial use-cases that require long battery life along with medium to high data rates. In this paper, we have studied the suitability of WiFi as a candidate for low power industrial needs. Comparisons have been provided with IEEE 802.15.4 wireless technology as well.
keywords: {Batteries;Wireless communication;Performance evaluation;IEEE 802.15 Standard;Wireless fidelity;Noise measurement;Wireless sensor networks;Low power Wireless LAN;802.15.4;LoRaWAN;low power;industrial communication;battery performance;longevity},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915552&isnumber=7912587

A. Bondarevs, P. Huss, Q. Ye and S. Gong, "Universal Internet of Things solution: Protocol independent," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1313-1318.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915553
Abstract: The diversity of wireless networks and protocols used by Internet of Things makes solutions non-interoperable. Moreover, some Things are not always able to communicate due to resource constrains or environmental factors. In this paper, those issues are addressed by introducing the concept of virtual Things. It means that each real Thing is virtualized in a local server or in the cloud, enabling communication with the user through a common protocol, i.e., the Internet Protocol. The virtual Thing has its own Internet Protocol address and authentication measure to control the access.
keywords: {Virtualization;Protocols;Databases;IP networks;ZigBee;Internet;Middleware;universal;virtual thing;Internet of Things;protocol independent},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915553&isnumber=7912587

M. Gidlund, T. Lennvall and J. Åkerberg, "Will 5G become yet another wireless technology for industrial automation?," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1319-1324.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915554
Abstract: With the growing interest in adoption of wireless technologies in industrial automation and the continuous search for new revenue streams new players are entering the arena in order to make their business grow further. One of the emerging wireless technologies aiming to support industrial automation applications is 5G, targeting anything from extreme throughput (> 10 Gbit/s) to extreme low latency (≤ 1 ms) to ultra high reliability (≥ 99.999%). In this article we intend to discuss the potential and challenges of adopting 5G in real industrial environments and give a more balanced picture compared to previous articles mainly written by telecom researchers and vendors as a way to promote their technology. Specifically, this article will discuss and provide some real industrial requirements, describe the main technical features of 5G and try to assess what applications it will support that are not by already supported by existing technologies. In the end, the success of 5G will depend on appealing business models and scalability, i.e., whether or not the same equipment can be deployed worldwide without any changes and spectrum rules, and the migration paths beyond 5G for reasonable business risks.
keywords: {5G mobile communication;Automation;Wireless communication;Reliability;Real-time systems;Monitoring},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915554&isnumber=7912587

"Real-time aspects of industrial cyber-physical systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1325-1326.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915555
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915555&isnumber=7912587

I. C. Bertolotti, "RTOS support in C-language toolchains," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1328-1333.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915556
Abstract: Embedded software development, even for real-time applications, evolved along the years from using the assembly language and custom-built schedulers - often derived from a cyclic executive - towards higher-level languages and execution models. In turn, this requires a much more sophisticated support at the toolchain level with respect to the past, especially when a real-time operating system (RTOS) is involved. In this paper, the mutual relationships between several key mechanisms internal to a C-language toolchain and the underlying RTOS are analyzed. These relationships are sometimes neglected in practice, but can easily lead to subtle and hard to debug time-dependent errors. The discussion is carried out with reference to a real-world GCC-based open-source toolchain for the C language and the FreeRTOS RTOS, both of considerable practical interest.
keywords: {Libraries;Operating systems;Runtime library;Open source software;Real-time systems;Multitasking;Real-time systems;Embedded software;Open source software},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915556&isnumber=7912587

G. Bloom, G. Cena, I. C. Bertolotti, T. Hu and A. Valenzano, "Supporting security protocols on CAN-based networks," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1334-1339.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915557
Abstract: The ever-increasing variety of services built on top of the Controller Area Network (CAN), along with the recent discovery of vulnerabilities in CAN-based automotive systems (some of them demonstrated in practice), stimulated a renewed attention to security-oriented enhancements of the CAN protocol. The issue is further compounded nowadays because, unlike in the past, security can no longer be enforced by physical bus segregation. This paper describes how CAN XR, a recently proposed extension of the CAN data-link layer, can effectively support the distributed calculation of arbitrary binary Boolean functions, which are the foundation of most security protocols, without necessarily disclosing their operands on the bus. The feasibility of the approach is then shown through experimental evaluation and by confirming its applicability to a shared key generation protocol proposed in literature.
keywords: {Protocols;Boolean functions;Security;Standards;Observers;Electronic mail;Payloads;Network security;Cryptographic protocols;Controller area network (CAN)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915557&isnumber=7912587

"Wireless sensor networks: Hardware software design aspects for industry," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1340-1342.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915558
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915558&isnumber=7912587

X. Wang, C. Chen and M. Lu, "A reconfigurable scheme of wireless power transmission in fully-enclosed box," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1344-1347.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915559
Abstract: This paper proposes a reconfigurable scheme of wireless power transmission in fully-enclosed box. The proposed scheme includes one transmitting element and multiple parasitic elements. Field distribution inside the box is reconfigured by switching the parasitic elements' termination between open and short, with the aim of delivering wireless power efficiently to a receiver whose location is not fixed. Experimental results demonstrate that, via tuning nine parasitic elements at frequency 425 MHz it is possible to achieve power transmission efficiency greater than 70% when a wireless power receiver changes its location within a 0.4 m by 0.6 m region inside a 1-cubic-meter cubic box.
keywords: {Wireless power transmission;Wireless communication;Receivers;Wireless sensor networks;Switches;Tuning;wireless power transmission;radio frequency;fully-enclosed box;reconfigurable},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915559&isnumber=7912587

M. Bal and R. Abrishambaf, "A system for monitoring hand hygiene compliance based-on Internet-of-Things," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1348-1353.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915560
Abstract: Studies show that the poor hand hygiene practices in public health institutions such as hospitals, clinics, schools and nursing homes is the most likely cause of the spread of various bacterial diseases. Proper hand hygiene is the single biggest defense against spread of diseases and therefore the caregivers' compliance with hand hygiene is one of the most effective tools in preventing Healthcare Associated Infections (HAIs) in such institutions. In this paper, we present a system prototype of interconnected hand-hygiene stations that use a combination Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) and Internet-of-Things (IoT) technologies for monitoring the hand hygiene compliance rate. The cloud-connected hand hygiene stations can cooperate to detect hand hygiene events in real-time, and help measuring the hand hygiene compliance at large-scale health-care facilities where it is deployed. The presented work is an initial phase of an on-going research study on hand hygiene compliance. Further phases of the system are currently being developed. The proposed system is desired to be scalable, and easy to install so that it can overcome most of the problems of existing related systems.
keywords: {Monitoring;Hospitals;Wireless communication;Radiofrequency identification;Wireless sensor networks;ZigBee;Hand-Hygiene compliance;infection control;Wireless Sensor and Actuator Networks Internet-of-Things (IoT);Raspberry Pi},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915560&isnumber=7912587

R. Abrishambaf, M. Bal and V. Vyatkin, "Distributed home automation system based on IEC61499 function blocks and wireless sensor networks," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1354-1359.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915561
Abstract: In this paper, a distributed home automation system will be demonstrated. Traditional systems are based on a central controller where all the decisions are made. The proposed control architecture is a solution to overcome the problems such as the lack of flexibility and re-configurability that most of the conventional systems have. This has been achieved by employing a method based on the new IEC 61499 function block standard, which is proposed for distributed control systems. This paper also proposes a wireless sensor network as the system infrastructure in addition to the function blocks in order to implement the Internet-of-Things technology into the area of home automation as a solution for distributed monitoring and control. The proposed system has been implemented in both Cyber (nxtControl) and Physical (Contiki-OS) level to show the applicability of the solution.
keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Home automation;IEC Standards;Protocols;Internet;Computer architecture;Home Automation;Wireless Sensor Networks;IEC 61499 Function Blocks;Internet-of-Things (IoT);Contiki-OS},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915561&isnumber=7912587

D. Fernandes et al., "On-body signal propagation in WBANs for firefighters personal protective equipment: Statistical characterization and performance assessment," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1360-1365.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915562
Abstract: The time-variant nature of the Wireless Body Area Networks (WBANs) channels turns unclear if the application's Quality of Service (QoS) requirements can be guaranteed. This paper provides an on-body signal propagation statistical characterization, following a scenario-based approach, and a communication performance evaluation of several wearable devices, which are attached to a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) garment. Performance assessment, which relies on both Packet Error Rate (PER) test and Link Margin (LM)-based evaluation, identifies channels that do not meet QoS requirements. The analysis of the received power attenuation in real scenarios and channel time-dependencies features, achieved in channel characterization, identifies links that are subjected to poor on-body propagation conditions. This study shows that some channels meet the QoS requirements, but communications are not energy-efficient. Thus, solutions able to explore the channel time-dependencies are suggested in order to reduce the energy consumption on wireless communications, without sacrificing other requirements.
keywords: {Fading channels;Wireless communication;Body area networks;Biomedical monitoring;Attenuation;Gain;Performance evaluation;Channel time dependencies;Channel performing analysis;On-body Channel Characterization;Wireless Body Area Network (WBAN)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915562&isnumber=7912587

O. Knecht, Y. Jundt and J. W. Kolar, "Planar inverted-F antenna design for a fully implantable mechanical circulatory support system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1366-1371.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915563
Abstract: Transcutaneous Energy Transfer (TET) is a promising solution to operate implantable mechanical blood pumps such as Left Ventricular Assist Devices (LVAD) without the need for a percutaneous driveline. In order to control the power flow of the wireless energy transfer system and in order to transmit sensor data, a wireless communication channel is needed. This paper describes the design of an implantable Planar Inverted-F Antenna (PIFA) for the use with a TET system, which operates in the MedRadio band at 403.5 MHz and which is suitable for implantation depths of more than 20 mm. The focus of this work is on the practical implementation of the antenna, and the critical design parameters as well as the influence of the human tissue on the antenna design are discussed in detail. Finally, the antenna is built in hardware and the electrical characteristics of the antenna are measured using a muscle tissue mimicking liquid solution. The implemented antenna achieves nearly perfect impedance matching at 403.5 MHz with a return loss of more than 25 dB and a high gain of -26.3 dBi, even for a placement as deep as 20 mm within the tissue mimicking liquid. Numerical simulations further show that a maximum spatial-average SAR of 0.27 W/kg is achieved in the muscle model with the maximum allowed antenna input power of 9.35 dBm, which is a factor of six below the most stringent SAR limit of 1.6 W/kg.
keywords: {Antenna measurements;Implants;Resonant frequency;Frequency shift keying;Bandwidth;Antenna radiation patterns;Wireless communication;PIFA;antenna design;active medical implant},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915563&isnumber=7912587

M. Selvatici, L. Dariz and M. Ruggeri, "SWSN: A safe wireless sensor network module for fail-silent systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1372-1377.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915564
Abstract: The challenges to deal with to design a WSN node which can be used in safety-relevant application are, to the present day, still to be completely investigated and solved. Nevertheless, a prototype implementation is presented in this paper, with an emphasis on the chosen hardware architecture and components, highlighting the limitations imposed by specific choices. Furthermore, an example application of a wearable device is presented, where this prototype is tested. The specific choices about the input stage turn out to be well-suited to the chosen application and the sensors used, that will enable real-time tracking of the movements in a cost-efficient way and with reduced components.
keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Microcontrollers;Hardware;Sensors;Safety;Transceivers;Computer architecture;Functional Safety;Wireless Sensor Network;CTPE Sensors;Wearable Device},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915564&isnumber=7912587

S. Pinto, J. Cabral and T. Gomes, "We-care: An IoT-based health care system for elderly people," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1378-1383.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915565
Abstract: In a world with an accelerated population aging, there is an increasingly interest in developing solutions for the elderly living assistance. The Internet of Things is a new reality that is completely changing our everyday life, and promises to revolutionize modern healthcare by enabling a more personalized, preventive and collaborative form of care. Aiming to combine these two important topics, this work presents an IoT-ready solution for the elderly living assistance which is able to monitor and register patients vital information as well as to provide mechanisms to trigger alarms in emergency situations. Its effective low-power/low-cost and wireless characteristics turns this solution suitable to be used anywhere and by anyone, in a discrete and comfortable wristband. Experiments demonstrated a good system performance for the implemented functionalities, and regarding the autonomy we obtained an average battery lifetime of 306 hours (around 12 days). For the working range, the system have proved to perform well within a range of 60 meters before the out-of-range warning being triggered.
keywords: {Monitoring;Medical services;Senior citizens;Logic gates;Temperature sensors;Software;Protocols;Internet of Things (IoT);Health Care;Elderly Living Assistance;Monitoring Wristband},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915565&isnumber=7912587

"Intelligent control of electrified vehicles," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1384-1386.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915566
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915566&isnumber=7912587

H. Li, S. Su, L. He and W. Gao, "An analysis on plug-in electric vehicle's operating cost considering cost of battery capacity degradation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1388-1392.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915567
Abstract: This paper analyzes the battery capacity degradation under different state of charge(SOC) ranges, which indicates that battery capacity degradation can be notably reduced by adjusting the way of charging electric vehicles(EVs). A customary way of charging is defined according to practical driving data. Economic analysis and numerical example, including ideal way of charging(IWC), the worst way of charging (WWC) and customary way of charging(CWC), are made to evaluate the cost of battery capacity degradation. Results show that the cost of battery degradation is a nonnegligible and elastic part of the total cost for a single time charging.
keywords: {Batteries;Degradation;State of charge;Electric vehicles;Discharges (electric);Data models;battery degradation cost;Charging cost;electric vehicle},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915567&isnumber=7912587

H. Cheng, L. Xue, P. Wang, P. Zeng and H. Yu, "Discrete manufacturing ontology development," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1393-1396.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915568
Abstract: The manufacturing enterprises are currently under great pressures to shorten innovation cycles, grow importance of high-efficiency manufacturing and accommodate new products by building more factories. Discrete manufacturing sectors face a huge array of problems because of its specificity. Knowledge representation is one of the most highlighted troubles. In this case, ontology is a significant knowledge model for representing discrete manufacturing knowledge in a human and machine interpretable way. This knowledge can also be used for automatic design-making to reconfigure the control software that supervises and coordinates the production process of discrete manufacturing. This paper addresses the important issues in developing specific ontology for discrete manufacturing. A generic ontology named DeMO is developed considering all the aspects about product from customized order to resulting production.
keywords: {Decision support systems;discrete manufacturing systems;semantic web;ontology;knowledge representation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915568&isnumber=7912587

W. Cao, C. Lin, L. Zhang, Y. Ming and H. Liu, "Fuzzy sliding mode control of networked control systems and applications to independent-drive electric vehicles," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1397-1402.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915569
Abstract: This paper dedicates to deal with the chattering phenomena of conventional sliding mode controllers (SMCs) applied in networked control systems (NCSs) and two new robust fuzzy sliding mode controllers for the lateral motion control of 4-wheel-independent-drive electric vehicles (4WID-EVs) are presented. It is well known that SMC has distinct advantages for nonlinear dynamic systems such as 4WID-EVs. However, a modern 4WID-EV has been a NCS, which will inevitably impose network-induced delays. The severe chartering phenomena arises when the conventional SMC is applied in NCSs. In order to make full use of the advantages of SMC and NCS in 4WID-EVs, two new fuzzy sliding-mode controllers are presented. First, the control-oriental model of a second-order dynamic system is derived, chattering problem is analyzed in detail. Then two fuzzy sliding mode control controllers are designed and the network-induced delays are determined. Afterwards, the lateral motion control model of a 4WID-EV based on CAN is presented and the proposed controllers are applied to this model. Finally, Simulations demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed controllers.
keywords: {Delays;Mathematical model;Electric vehicles;Motion control;Networked control systems;Vehicle dynamics;Actuators;Independent-drive electric vehicle;Sliding mode controller (SMC);Networked control system (NCS);Fuzzy logic;Lateral motion control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915569&isnumber=7912587

H. Wang, Y. Huang, A. Khajepour, H. He and C. Lv, "MPC-based power management strategy for a series hybrid electric tracked bulldozer," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1403-1408.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915570
Abstract: In this brief, a model predictive control (MPC) is developed for the first time to solve the optimal energy management problem in tracked bulldozers equipped with advanced series hybrid powertrains. Hybrid bulldozers use two distinct power sources for propulsion, and their complex powertrain architecture requires the coordination of all subsystems to achieve target performances in terms of fuel economy, exhaust emissions. This method is applied to a series hybrid electric vehicle, using a linearized model in state space formulation and a linear MPC algorithm, based on Quadratic Programming (QP), to find a feasible suboptimal solution. The MPC solution is then compared with the dynamic programming algorithm, which requires the entire driving profile to be known priori, guarantees the optimality and is used here as the benchmark solution. The effect of the parameters of the MPC (length of prediction horizon) is also investigated. The results from comparing the MPC solution and the rule-based control strategy indicate that there is an approximately 5.2%improvement in fuel economy.
keywords: {Land vehicles;Engines;Supercapacitors;Resistance;Soil;Energy management;Mechanical power transmission;Series hybrid electric tracked bulldozer;power management strategy;Model predictive control;dynamic programming},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915570&isnumber=7912587

"Internet-of-things technology for industrial applications," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1409-1410.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915571
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915571&isnumber=7912587

Y. Imai, D. Yashiro, K. Yubai and S. Komada, "A performance evaluation of distributed control with STDMA switches," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1412-1417.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915572
Abstract: A control system that includes a network in a feedback loop often becomes unstable, owing to a time delay in the network. Synchronous time-division multiple access (STDMA) is a dynamic routing protocol that achieves low-delay time communication. STDMA is expected to be a potential candidate in the design of a feedback control system over a network. Therefore, this paper analyzes stability and performance of a feedback system using a dynamic-routing-based network. The validity of the analysis is verified through experiments.
keywords: {Delays;Routing;Control systems;Protocols;Robots;Spread spectrum communication;Transfer functions},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915572&isnumber=7912587

Q. Hu and G. P. Hancke, "A session hijacking attack on physical layer key generation agreement," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1418-1423.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915573
Abstract: Physical layer key agreement is a new kind of schemes used to generate a shared key between pervasive and resource constrained devices. These schemes utilize the characteristics of the wireless channel to generate the shared key. As all characteristics are time-depend and location-depend, it is hard for eavesdroppers to get the key. But it lacks research on active attacks which aim at manipulating the key. PHY-UIR (PHYsical layer key agreement with User Introduced Randomness) is the only paper which proposes a solution in detail to against such kind of active attacks. In this paper, we propose a new kind of key manipulating attack which PHY-UIR can not prevent. We call it session hijacking attack as the attacker hijacking the key agreement by injecting high power signals and force legitimate devices running PHY-UIR protocol with the attacker. In such way, the attacker and device generate the same key. Our simulation result validates our attack and shows the high performance of our attack on manipulating the generated key.
keywords: {Three-dimensional displays},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915573&isnumber=7912587

R. Cupek, A. Ziebinski and M. Drewniak, "An OPC UA server as a gateway that shares CAN network data and engineering knowledge," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1424-1429.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915574
Abstract: In order to connect existing electronic devices that are equipped with fieldbus communication capabilities into the emerging Cyber Physical Systems (CPS), new models that combine live data from the underlying devices together with the metadata information that describes them have to be created. The new solutions should be based on widely accepted communication standards and should be easy to implement even in the case of limited resources. The presented work focuses on an OPC UA server that is used as a gateway to share the information that is available in a Control Area Network (CAN). It joins the live data from physical devices with the meta information that supports their proper understanding. The engineering knowledge is taken directly from the CANoe framework that is used to develop CAN-based systems. The information is available to any OPC UA client according to the OPC UA data model. The focus of this paper is on a flexible model to present the data and meta information from the underlying physical systems. The proposed solution is based on the object-oriented based communication model that is supported by the OPC UA standard. The above-mentioned idea is illustrated by a simple use case of a CAN-based application from the automotive industry.
keywords: {Servers;Data models;Automotive engineering;Real-time systems;Laser radar;Measurement by laser beam;Logic gates;Cyber Physical Systems;Data Fusion;Control Area Network (CAN);OPC UA (IEC 62541)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915574&isnumber=7912587

T. Ulz, T. Pieber, C. Steger, S. Haas, H. Bock and R. Matischek, "Bring your own key for the industrial Internet of Things," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1430-1435.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915575
Abstract: High tech strategies such as Industry 4.0 and Smart Manufacturing require industrial devices to be connected to the Internet. This movement towards interconnected industrial devices poses significant security risks as confidential data must be transferred and stored using untrustworthy channels and cloud servers. End-to-end private key cryptography is suitable to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity of data. However, private key cryptography has some drawbacks such as the so-called key distribution problem. A possible solution, factory installed keys, are untrustworthy as the two partners relying on end-to-end cryptography can not be sure that no other party is in possession of the used keys. To overcome these problems, the Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) principle based on Near Field Communication (NFC) and dedicated secured hardware is presented in this paper.
keywords: {Cryptography;Internet;Manufacturing;Mobile handsets;Production facilities;Near Field Communication;Industrial Internet of Things;Industry 4.0;cryptography;keys;security controller},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915575&isnumber=7912587

B. J. Silva and G. P. Hancke, "Characterization of non-line of sight paths using 802.15.4a," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1436-1440.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915576
Abstract: Accurate ranging or localization in non-line of sight conditions is still an open research problem. Non-line of sight conditions usually introduce a positive bias in the ranging measurement that has to be corrected before accurate localization can be achieved. In order to correct this bias, the non-line of sight channel (or path) has to be characterized and known a priori. In this paper, we characterize non-line of sight paths in a residential environment using commercial off-the-shelf 802.15.4a radios. The aim is to determine how different line-of-sight and non-line-of-sight paths are by considering the variation of amplitude of deterministic multipath components extracted from channel impulse responses. The results from the measurement campaign show that the variation in amplitude of the deterministic multipath components in non-line-of-sight conditions is similar to line-of-sight conditions if the signal path is obstructed by walls only. However, if the obstruction is more complex, it is shown that the amplitude variation and range variation is much higher and the non-line of sight bias increases significantly.
keywords: {Distance measurement;IEEE 802.15 Standard;Receivers;Bandwidth;Nonlinear optics;Radio transmitters;Delays;802.15.4a;non-line of sight;impulse radio ultrawideband},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915576&isnumber=7912587

F. P. Jooste, A. Kumar and G. P. Hancke, "Energy efficient irrigation scheduling system based on the ISO/IEC/IEEE 21451 standards," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1441-1446.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915577
Abstract: A real-time irrigation scheduling system (ISS) for greenhouses has been developed in compliance with the ISO/IEC/IEEE 21451 standard. The developed system is capable of displaying greenhouse and irrigation scheduling parameters. Irrigation can wirelessly be automated by the sensor node by activating irrigation based on sensor values and predefined irrigation parameters. A low power sensor node was developed to record greenhouse conditions, measuring soil moisture, light, CO2, temperature, and humidity. The sensor node wirelessly sends all measured data to a graphical user interface application running on a server. All data received by the GUI is stored within a MySQL database for history and statistical purposes. An irrigation module was also designed, enabling the system to wirelessly actuate irrigation when required. Irrigation can either be manually operated through the GUI, or automated through the sensor node based on current greenhouse conditions. The system's wireless communication is implemented using ZigBee modules and the modules have been configured with Digi-Mesh firmware, enabling mesh network functionality on all wireless devices. The ISS is low cost and energy efficient.
keywords: {Irrigation;Greenhouses;IEC Standards;ISO Standards;Wireless communication;Soil moisture;Temperature measurement;Green building;ZigBee;low power sensor module;irrigation;water management;ISO/IEC/IEEE 21451 standards},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915577&isnumber=7912587

"Human factors and system design in factory automation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1447-1448.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915578
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915578&isnumber=7912587

G. Wang, R. M. Hasani, Y. Zhu and R. Grosu, "A novel Bayesian network-based fault prognostic method for semiconductor manufacturing process," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1450-1454.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915579
Abstract: Fault prognostic in various levels of production of semiconductor chips is considered to be a great challenge. To reduce yield loss during the manufacturing process, tool abnormalities should be detected as early as possible during process monitoring. In this paper, we propose a novel fault prognostic method based on Bayesian networks. The network is designed such that it can process both discrete and continuous variables, to represent the correlations between critical deviations and to process quality control data based on divide-and-conquer strategy. Such a network enables us to perform high-precision multi-step prognostic on the status of the fabrication process given the current state of the sensory info. Additionally, we introduce a layer-wise approach for efficient learning of the Bayesian-network parameters. We evaluate the accuracy of our prognostic model on a wafer fabrication dataset where our model performs precise next-step fault prognostic by using the control sensory data.
keywords: {Bayes methods;Monitoring;Sensors;Fabrication;Process control;Semiconductor device modeling;Probability distribution},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915579&isnumber=7912587

S. Kawazoe et al., "Development of standing assistive walker for domestic use," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1455-1460.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915580
Abstract: This paper proposes a robotic walker with a standing or sitting assistance function. Although many assistance devices in previous works are specialized in only standing assistance or walking assistance, users need standing, walking and sitting assistance continuously from the same device. Our system focuses on domestic use for people who need nursing in their daily life such as elderly people. To realize an assistive robotic system for “a real world usage,” we design it considering safety, practicality and low cost. Our developed assistive system consists of a powered walker and a standing assistance manipulator. Its size is small enough for using in a narrow room such as a bathroom. Furthermore, when proposed robotic walker assists a standing motion, it uses not only an actuator for lifting up direction but also actuators of a powered walker for stabilizing its user. This means our proposed walker realizes both standing and walking assistance with minimum actuators and its cost is practically low. The performance of our proposed system is verified by experiments using our prototype with elderly or handicapped subjects.
keywords: {Senior citizens;Legged locomotion;Switches;Actuators;Wheels;Mathematical model;standing assistance;walker;family usage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915580&isnumber=7912587

A. Ishibashi, S. Yokota, A. Matsumoto, D. Chugo and H. Hashimoto, "Inflatable arm with rigidity for safe robots — 1st report: Proposal of joint structure," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1461-1465.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915581
Abstract: The purpose of this study is to develop the soft robotic arms for human life assistant robots by using a pneumatic system. To activate the arm, we consider the joint to be the active part. Therefore, in this paper, the structure of the joint is the focus. This joint has a helical structure outside to higher rigidity, and two pairs of air tubes inside. By controlling the air pressure in the tubes, the joint has the ability to bend and stretch.
keywords: {Electron tubes;Valves;Pressure control;Lead;Rubber;Particle separators;Regulators;robotic arm;inflatable;soft;rigidity;joint},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915581&isnumber=7912587

K. Sumi, E. Sato-Shimokawara and T. Yamaguchi, "Proposal of communication robot with simple motions," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1466-1471.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915582
Abstract: In recent years, many kinds of humanoid robots have been developed. A disadvantage of a simple robot is a lack of movements unlike some humanoid robots have arms. The authors test simple robots could realize fluent communication as well as humanoid robots. What kind of motion should do as basic communication movements for a simple robot was researched in pre-experiments. Based on the results of pre-experiments, the proposed simple robot was created. Using pepper and a simple robot, the authors conducted an experiment to evaluate the impression. The following knowledge is obtained by results of experiments. A proposed simple robot with emotional motions is evaluated as well as Pepper in “Familiarity”, “Enjoyment”, and “Performance.” A proposed simple robot with emotional motions is evaluated higher than simple robot without emotional motion “Familiarity”, “Enjoyment” and “Activity.” Even with the proposed simple robot, the author can realize the same degree of communication as Pepper by multimodal transformation.
keywords: {Humanoid robots;Neck;Robot sensing systems;Face;Turning;System analysis and design},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915582&isnumber=7912587

H. Kobayashi, "SETTLE code — A 2D code for 6-dof localization and its implementation on Android smartphone," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1472-1477.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915583
Abstract: This paper deals with the “SETTLE code”, which is a 2D code that provides camera image based 6-dof self-localization in 3-D space. In the authors' previous works, they proposes the preceding idea of the SETTLE code. However, there were several problems mainly in precision and usability. Then, in this paper, the authors re-defines their landmark code as the Settle code and re-implements it as an app (application software) for Android OS. The basic performances of the SETTLE code are also reported by some experiment results.
keywords: {Cameras;Optimized production technology;Lenses;Software;Two dimensional displays;Androids;Humanoid robots},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915583&isnumber=7912587

"Advanced power electronics for power quality in distributed systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1478-1480.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915584
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915584&isnumber=7912587

H. A. Sher, A. F. Murtaza and K. Al-Haddad, "A hybrid maximum power point tracking method for photovoltaic applications with reduced offline measurements," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1482-1485.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915585
Abstract: In this paper, an improved hybrid maximum power point tracking (MPPT) method is presented. The proposed hybrid method is a hybrid version of fractional short circuit current (FSCC) and perturb and observe (P&O) MPPT method. The proposed improvement in this paper enables the hybrid MPPT method to detect the dynamic weather conditions more precisely than the previously developed methods. Moreover, under slowly varying weather condition the algorithm tracks the maximum power point (MPP) using the P&O MPPT. Thus, the proposed method experiences fewer offline (short circuit current) measurements and hence, better energy harnessing. The proposed MPPT method is validated using a buck-boost converter designed at a rated power of 125W and simulated using Simulink.
keywords: {Maximum power point trackers;Meteorology;Current measurement;Short-circuit currents;Power capacitors;Mathematical model;Photovoltaic systems;Maximum Power Point Tracking;Solar Photovoltaic;Modeling & Simulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915585&isnumber=7912587

M. Sleiman, B. Kedjar, H. F. Blanchette, H. Kanaan and K. Al-Haddad, "A simple control method for modular multilevel converters," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1486-1491.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915586
Abstract: In this paper a simple control method involving new insertion index selection scheme for control of Modular Multilevel Converters (MMC) is proposed. In contrast with classical closed-loop methods, where all available arm voltages are measured and used in the generation process of insertion indices, this method uses available average voltage, i.e. the arithmetic mean of available upper and lower arm voltages per leg. Thus, number of measured signals to be fed back are reduced to half. Moreover, development of available arm voltage ripple expressions along with the thorough evaluation of the proposed insertion method impact on arm voltages driving input- and output-currents are presented and discussed. Finally, analytical findings along with simulation results proved the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Capacitors;Voltage measurement;Voltage control;Harmonic analysis;Legged locomotion;Semiconductor device measurement;Energy storage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915586&isnumber=7912587

A. Javadi, A. Hamadi, A. Ndtoungou and K. Al-Haddad, "Enhanced standalone single-phase system with an SPFLI with a resonant controller," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1492-1497.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915587
Abstract: This paper proposes a configuration based on an a PR controller to enhance the power quality of a Single-Phase Five-Level Inverter (SPFLI). A sliding mode control is used to compensate the voltage harmonics and regulate the load supply. The proposed configuration implementing a sliding mode controller, a resonance regulator helps improving the dynamic response of the system and may target any specified voltage harmonics. A battery is interfaced with a combination Buck and Boost converters helps to reduce the nominal battery voltage, balance power, and to regulate the DC bus bar voltage. The proposed configuration is modeled, simulated and implemented experimentally in real-time on an Opal-RT simulator. The performances of the proposed system are analyzed and discussed in the paper.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Voltage control;Passive filters;Damping;Inverters;Batteries;Proportional resonant controller;adapting wind turbine;nonlinear load;real-time implementation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915587&isnumber=7912587

A. Ammar et al., "Grid tie indirect matrix converter operating with unity power factor under double space vector modulation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1498-1503.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915588
Abstract: This paper discusses the design and topology of the indirect matrix converter. The double space vector modulation technique (DSVPWM) is applied on the system and a unity power factor was accomplished along with desired sinusoidal input and output waveforms. The whole system is simulated using Matlab/Simulink, and the results prove to comply with the existing power quality standards.
keywords: {Matrix converters;Topology;Frequency conversion;Switches;Modulation;Reactive power;Inverters;AC-AC conversion;matrix converter;space vector modulation;unity power factor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915588&isnumber=7912587

B. Arabsalmanabadi, A. Javadi and K. Al-Haddad, "Harmonic power flow in unbalanced and polluted radial distribution systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1504-1509.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915589
Abstract: The main purpose of this paper is the harmonic power flow in multiphase unbalanced radial distribution systems in the presence of non-linear loads and reactive components. It is important to have analytical methodologies to assess the impact and consequences of non-linear loads and shunt capacitors on voltage profile and harmonic distortion in each bus in the power systems. The presented power flow is entirely different from conventional methods applied in transmission power systems. The proposed method in this paper is based on graph theory, and injection current technique. A standard test system, IEEE-13 bus radial unbalanced, is considered for implementation and explanation of the method. To check the accuracy and efficiency of the method, it is also tested on IEEE 34, 37 & 123 bus test feeders. The comparison of results approves robustness and reliability of the method. MATLAB M-file is used to obtain results.
keywords: {Load flow;Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Load modeling;Capacitors;Graph theory;Harmonic Power Flow;Unbalanced and Polluted Power System;Graph Theory;harmonics;Power Quality},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915589&isnumber=7912587

A. Hamadi, A. Javadi, A. Ndtoungou, S. Rahmani and K. Al-Haddad, "Modeling and contol to enhance a grid on/off operation of a single-phase system," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1510-1515.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915590
Abstract: This paper proposes a modeling and control to enhance a grid on/ofï operation of a single-phase system consisting of a Single-Phase Five-Level Inverter (SPFLI). The Sliding mode control is adopted to compensate the current harmonics, the reactive power and the regulation of the DC bus voltage at the PCC during grid operation. The renewable energy based PMSG wind turbine is used to reduce the energy drawn from the grid. The characteristics of the wind turbine may be modified to prevent the use of the common dumping load to absorb the excess power. The proposed configuration uses a sliding mode controller, anti-windup PI regulator and an active damping helps improving the output filtering and avoid to use the damping resistor and to improve a voltage quality at the PCC. The anti-windup PI controller ensures to avoid the saturation of the output of the PI controller. A battery is connected in DC side to ensure constant DC voltage and balance the load of the system. The MPPT algorithm proposed ensure to extract demand power of the load. The proposed configuration is modeled and simulated to validate the performances of the proposed system and the theoretical study.
keywords: {Wind turbines;Voltage control;Damping;Batteries;Simulation;Power harmonic filters;Harmonic analysis;Active damping;sliding mode controller;wind turbine;nonlinear load;power quality},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915590&isnumber=7912587

M. S. bin Arif, S. M. Ayob, A. Iqbal, S. Williamson and Z. Salam, "Nine-level asymmetrical single phase multilevel inverter topology with low switching frequency and reduce device counts," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1516-1521.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915591
Abstract: This paper presents a new asymmetrical single-phase multilevel inverter topology capable of producing nine-level output voltage with reduce device counts. In order to obtain the desired output voltage, dc sources are connected in all the combination of addition and subtraction through different switches. Proposed topology results in reduction of dc source, switch counts, losses, cost and size of the inverter. Comparison between the existing topologies shows that the proposed topology yields less component counts. Proposed topology is modeled and simulated using Matlab-Simulink software in order to verify the performance and feasibility of the circuit. A low frequency switching strategy is also proposed in this work. The results show that the proposed topology is capable to produce a nine-level output voltage with less number of component counts and acceptable harmonic distortion content.
keywords: {Topology;Inverters;Switches;Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Integrated circuit modeling;MATLAB;multilevel inverter;asymmetrical;Total Harmonic Distortion (THD);low-frequency switching},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915591&isnumber=7912587

N. Mendalek and K. Al-Haddad, "Photovoltaic system modeling and simulation," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1522-1527.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915592
Abstract: This paper presents the modeling and simulation of a photovoltaic (PV) system. The equations governing the operation of the one-diode equivalent model are developed and the identification of the model parameters is performed through MATLAB script. The system studied encompasses a commercial PV panel, a dc-dc boost power converter, a battery and a dc load. The boost converter is controlled using voltage error PID compensator which has an input reference voltage computed by perturb-and-observe (P&O) maximum power point tracking (MPPT) technique. The system is simulated in MATLAB/Simulink environment for different irradiation levels and PV module temperature values. The control strategy is also validated in presence of rapidly varying irradiation conditions.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Computational modeling;MATLAB;Maximum power point trackers;Radiation effects;Atmospheric modeling;Temperature;photovoltaic (PV) systems;dc-dc boost converter;MPPT;perturb-and-observe (P&O) algorithm;MATLAB},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915592&isnumber=7912587

"Dependable wireless communication for industrial internet of things," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1528-1530.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915593
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915593&isnumber=7912587

J. Rufino, M. Alam, J. Ferreira, A. Rehman and K. F. Tsang, "Orchestration of containerized microservices for IIoT using Docker," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1532-1536.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915594
Abstract: Industrial Internet of things (IIoTs) relies on different devices working together, gathering and sharing data using multiple communication protocols. This heterogeneity becomes a hindrance in the development of architectures that can support applications operating independently of the underlying protocols. Therefore in this paper, we proposed a modular and scalable architecture based on lightweight virtualization. The modularity provided by the proposed architecture combined with lightweight virtualization orchestration supplied by Docker simplifies management and enables distributed deployments. Availability and fault-tolerance characteristics are ensured by distributing the application logic across different devices where a single microservice or even device failure can have no effect on system performance. The proposed architecture is instantiated and tested on a simple time-dependent use case. The obtained results validates that the proposed architecture can be used to deploy services on demand at different architecture layers.
keywords: {Computer architecture;Logic gates;Containers;Virtualization;Sensors;Cloud computing;Software Defined Network;Industrial Internet of Things;Wireless Communication},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915594&isnumber=7912587

"Impedance-source converters for renewable energy conversion systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1537-1538.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915595
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915595&isnumber=7912587

Y. Liu, B. Ge and H. Abu-Rub, "A model predictive control for low-frequency ripple power elimination of active power filter integrated single-phase quasi-Z-source inverter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1540-1545.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915596
Abstract: A model predictive control (MPC) is proposed for a buck-type active power filter (APF) integrated single-phase quasi-Z-source inverter (qZSI) to directly eliminate the dc-side low-frequency ripple power. The buck-type APF operates independently from the main circuit power devices, comparing to the coupled-type APF. The proposed MPC compensates the low-frequency ripple power directly by the APF capacitor power and achieves fast responses during load power changes. There is no requirement to preset the capacitor voltage, thus to easily handle the non-linear loads. With the proposed solution, the APF is able to freely divert the dc-side low frequency (not only double line frequency) ripple power to the APF's capacitor in the form of highly fluctuated voltage and current, so as to decrease qZS inductance and capacitance. The buck-type APF is analyzed and the proposed method is illustrated. Simulation results demonstrate the validity of the proposed approach.
keywords: {Capacitors;Legged locomotion;Active filters;Capacitance;Inverters;Inductors;Inductance;Model predictive control;active power filter;quasi-Z-source inverter;low-frequency ripple;non-linear loads},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915596&isnumber=7912587

"Wireless power transfer for industrial electronics," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1546-1548.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915597
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915597&isnumber=7912587

K. N. Mude, M. T. Outeiro and A. Carvalho, "In-motion wireless power transfer: Technology, infrastructure, challenges and market scenario," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1550-1554.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915598
Abstract: In-motion Wireless Power Transfer (IM-WPT) is the ability of charging the battery of an EV while it is in motion. This paper introduces a review of IM-WPT charging. The main issuses relatted to; the technology associated, infrastructure and current challenges faced in research and the market scenario are addressed along the paper.
keywords: {Coils;Batteries;Magnetic cores;Inverters;Power supplies;Magnetic flux;Ferrites;In-motion Wireless Power Transfer (IM-WPT);Challenges;Market scenario},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915598&isnumber=7912587

M. Debbou and F. Colet, "Interleaved DC/DC charger for wireless power tranfer," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1555-1560.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915599
Abstract: This paper introduces an interleaved DC/DC converter coupled with a Wireless Power Transfer (WPT) system to ensure charging function for the electric vehicles (EVs) batteries. The dynamic wireless power transfer system charging proposed and studied in VEDECOM institute is detailed. The innovative architecture based on an optimized magnetic coupler associated with a power electronic part is designed for an efficient operation. In this research work, an interleaved Buck boost converter is investigated, the DC/DC architecture is opted due to the variable output voltage of the WPT charging system. The interleaved is able to process more power with reduced circuit ripples and harmonics distortion, and current stress on the battery.
keywords: {Batteries;Couplers;Wireless power transfer;Vehicle dynamics;Capacitors;Inductors;Topology;Electric Vehicle(EV);Wireless Power Transfer (WPT);Buck-Boost Converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915599&isnumber=7912587

R. Feng, D. Czarkowski, F. de Leon and K. Mude, "Optimal design of resonant coupled multi-receiver wireless power transfer systems," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1561-1566.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915600
Abstract: Wireless power transfer (WPT) technology is becoming popular and widely used in various fields including smart phones and electrical vehicles (EV). Therefore, designing an efficient and energy-saving WPT system is a critical issue. The focus of this paper is on a resonant coupled WPT system design by considering the scenario that more than one receivers present at the receiver side. The WPT system is optimized by minimizing the transmitted power from the transmitter side while considering the minimum required power at all receivers simultaneously. Using the tools of optimization theory, an optimization problem is formulated first that captures the multi-receiver WPT optimal design, and then it is reformulated as an equivalent convex program which is convenient to address. The paper also analyzes the impact of design parameters on the power transfer characteristics. Finally, a number of case studies are used to corroborate theoretical findings and provide optimal design guidelines for the resonant coupled multi-receiver WPT systems.
keywords: {Receivers;Transmitters;Resistance;Optimization;System analysis and design;Couplings;Wireless power transfer},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915600&isnumber=7912587

"Innovation and commercialisation in industrial electronics," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1567-1568.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915601
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915601&isnumber=7912587

M. Dehghani and R. M. Dangelico, "Smart wearable technologies: Current status and market orientation through a patent analysis," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1570-1575.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915602
Abstract: Technology is the vital criterion to boosting the quality of life. Nowadays, innovation in smart wearable technologies (SWTs) has been coming up to different sectors and is gaining momentum to be implemented in everyday objects. The successful introduction of SWTs will present the production of new generations of innovative and high value-added products. Furthermore, this topic is gaining ground within both academic and practitioner studies with the attempt to better understand the innovation trend in order to provide a guidance for both policy makers and companies in supporting its development. Thus, the aim of this study is to analysis the development trends of SWTs. To this aim, we have built a unique database of 1062 patents included in the Thomson Innovation database and registered between 1998 and 2015. Data analysis are also conducted through citation analysis based on assignees and top IPC subclasses. Our analyses show the overall development trend for different product classes, and top assignees. This study also provides useful results for managers who can monitor their competitors in this industry in order to make decisions on technological investments and market strategies.
keywords: {Patents;Technological innovation;Market research;Companies;Biomedical monitoring;Clothing;Computers;wearable technology;smart wearables;smart clothing;smart watch;patent;citation analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915602&isnumber=7912587

"Energy efficient control of converters and AC drives," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, 2017, pp. 1576-1578.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915603
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915603&isnumber=7912587

P. Sobanski and T. Orlowska-Kowalska, "Open switch fault diagnosis methods for an AC/DC line-side converter," 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2017, pp. 1580-1585.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915604
Abstract: This paper provides an open switch fault diagnosis method for a voltage oriented controlled AC/DC line side converter. The technique is based on rectifier phase voltage errors calculations. For the faulted transistors localization, the average voltage errors of the rectifier are computed and their values and signs are analyzed. The proposed method is valid under the rectifier as well as the regenerative mode of the converter. Additionally, the algorithm does not generate false alarms during a healthy operation of the rectifier. Further, an assumed fault threshold, which is required for the transistor failure detection, is constant and does not depend on a grid choke inductance. The proposed method is characterized by a short diagnosis time and full effectiveness. To validate the proposed diagnostic algorithm Matlab/Simulink has been used.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Transistors;Circuit faults;Fault diagnosis;Voltage measurement;Voltage control;Inductors;rectifier;fault diagnosis;transistor fault;open switch fault},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7915604&isnumber=7912587
