"[Front cover]," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1-6.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352141
Abstract: Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352141&isnumber=8352140

"ICIT 2018 organizing committees," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 7-12.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352142
Abstract: Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352142&isnumber=8352140

"Technical program reviewers," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 13-18.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352143
Abstract: The conference offers a note of thanks and lists its reviewers.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352143&isnumber=8352140

"Invited speakers," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 19-20.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352144
Abstract: Provides an abstract for each of the invited presentations and may include a brief professional biography of each presenter. The complete presentations were not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352144&isnumber=8352140

"TT Control Systems, Robotics and Mechatronics," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 21-22.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352145
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352145&isnumber=8352140

G. C. R. de Oliveira, K. B. de Carvalho and A. S. Brandão, "A hybrid strategy for robot navigation in semi-structured environments," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 23-28.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352146
Abstract: Autonomous mobile robots should be able to navigate on different types of environments. Some strategies deals with the navigation problem by taking into consideration only the obstacle avoidance task, adopting a reactive behavior. Others, at cost of increased hardware processing, look for optimal paths that must be replanned once an obstacle appears in the planned path. The proposal of this paper is to integrate the A∗ search and obstacle avoidance tangential escape algorithms, in order to overcome the A∗ limitations in non-static environments. Instead of calculating a new route to avoid collisions with unexpected obstacles, as in most popular solutions in the literature, the robot perform deviations while it tries to keep on the planned route. The strategy also uses the robots sensor data for mapping the environment in an Occupancy Grid, in order to navigate deliberatively. Numerical simulations validate the proposal.
keywords: {Robot sensing systems;Navigation;Planning;Collision avoidance;Probabilistic logic;Real-time systems;path planning;local planning;global planning;robot navigation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352146&isnumber=8352140

I. Takeuchi and S. Katsura, "A study of acceleration control system via industrial motion network," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 29-34.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352147
Abstract: In recent years, the drive source of industrial machinery is covered by servo motors. When a machinery vendor handles servo motors, the servo motor control program needs to be implemented in a motion controller or a programmable logic controller (PLC). Recent servo motors are controlled via a motion network, and it is necessary to consider the delay due to network communication. Hence, this paper presents an acceleration control system via industrial motion network. When trying to construct an acceleration control system on the motion controller side, the motion network delay adversely affects the control system. Therefore, the effect of time delay for acceleration control and how to deal with it are discussed. Also, a velocity controller has been introduced as a design example of a controller via a motion network.
keywords: {Gain;Disturbance observers;Delays;Servomotors;Manganese;Acceleration;acceleration control;motion network;disturbance observer;time delay compensation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352147&isnumber=8352140

J. H. Kim, S. -m. Hur and Y. Oh, "A study on the L∞/L2 performance of a computed torque controller," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 35-39.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352148
Abstract: This paper introduces a new performance analysis method for a computed torque controller against disturbances with the framework of the induced norm from L2 to (which is also denoted by the L∞/L2-induced norm). To this end, we first derive a linear time-invariant (LTI) representation of the system obtained by connecting a robot manipulator and a computed torque controller. We then formulate the problem definition associated with the L∞/L2 performance of the computed torque controller in which the maximum magnitude of the output for disturbances of finite energy is adopted as the performance measure. We next show that the L∞/L2-induced norm of the derived LTI system can be explicitly computed by solving the continuous-time Lyapunov equation. Finally, some experiment results are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the introduced performance analysis method.
keywords: {Torque;Torque measurement;Manipulator dynamics;Linear systems;Computational modeling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352148&isnumber=8352140

J. Smith, J. Yang, C. Liu and W. -H. Chen, "Actuator dynamics augmented DOBC for a small scale fixed wing UAV," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 40-45.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352149
Abstract: This paper presents an actuator dynamics augmented Disturbance Observer Based Control (DOBC) approach for the lateral control of a small fixed wing Unmanned Aerial Vehcile (UAV). Different from most of existing DOBC approaches applied to UAV control, the observer is augmented to estimate actuator states as well as disturbances. The new idea on observer design results in better control performance as compared with the traditional DOBC approach. The actuator modelling process of the UAV is provided in detail. The closed-loop stability as well as observer tuning guidelines are discussed. The performance improvement is demonstrated first in numerical simulation and validated with flight test results using a Skywalker X8.
keywords: {Actuators;Atmospheric modeling;Numerical models;Disturbance observers;Aircraft;Delays;actuator dynamics;disturbance rejection;disturbance-observer-based control;unmanned aerial vehicle},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352149&isnumber=8352140

S. Motarabbesoun, M. A. Badamchizadeh, E. Babaei and M. R. Mojallizadeh, "Adaptive passivity-based control for output voltage tracking of single-inductor dual-output buck converters," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 46-50.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352150
Abstract: This paper investigates an adaptive passivity-based controller for single-inductor, dual-output (SIDO) buck dc-dc converters operating in continuous-conduction mode. Cross-regulation is the main problem of these converters in which their output voltages are being coupled to each other. Subsequently, the state-space averaging method is used for modeling of the system. A new passivity-based controller is designed to decouple the output voltages. Afterwards, an algebraic parameter identification algorithm is designed to estimate unknown parameters, i.e., loads and input voltage. Some simulations and experiments are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the designed controller in reducing cross-regulation and the robustness of the proposed system towards input voltage and loads variations.
keywords: {Voltage control;Load modeling;Parameter estimation;Load management;Robustness;Inductors;Buck converters;Adaptive passivity-based control;algebraic identification;cross-regulation;SIDO-Buck converter;voltage tracking},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352150&isnumber=8352140

L. Zhang, H. Obeid and S. Laghrouche, "Adaptive super twisting control of linear induction motor considering dynamic end effects," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 51-56.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352151
Abstract: This paper presents an adaptive super twisting control scheme for linear induction motor (LIM), considering dynamic end effects. The designed control strategy is based on cascaded adaptive super twisting controllers (ASTCs) which regulate the stator currents in response to LIM speed error. Based on indirect rotor field oriented control (IRFOC) strategy, the adaptive time varying switching gains are designed and adopted in external loop and internal loop control scheme. The adaptive super twisting algorithm can eliminate the influence of external disturbances and uncertainties. The designed controller shows better results than fixed parameter super twisting controller (STC) with better transient performance and less chattering. Simulation results prove the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Inductors;Rotors;Induction motors;Stators;Iron;Vehicle dynamics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352151&isnumber=8352140

S. M. Zanoli, L. Barboni, F. Cocchioni and C. Pepe, "Advanced process control aimed at energy efficiency improvement in process industries," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 57-62.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352152
Abstract: This paper proposes an Advanced Process Control framework aimed at energy efficiency achievement and improvement in process industries. Model Predictive Control is the adopted control strategy: an architecture based on several cooperating blocks is proposed. The developed basic control framework has been enriched and customized for its installation on industrial processes. Steel industry billets reheating furnaces and cement industry clinker rotary kilns are examples of customized applications. With respect to the previous control systems, based on standalone controllers and/or plant operators manual conduction, strategic trade-offs between opposing objectives, e.g. production targets meeting, product quality specifications fulfillment, and energy efficiency achievement, have been ensured, together with significant improvements on process control.
keywords: {C# languages;Advanced Process Control;Model Predictive Control;clinker production;reheating furnace;energy efficiency},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352152&isnumber=8352140

G. Reina, R. Galati and A. Milella, "All-terrain estimation for mobile robots in precision agriculture," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 63-68.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352153
Abstract: This paper presents a novel multi-sensor terrain classification approach using visual and proprioceptive data, to support autonomous operations by an agricultural vehicle. The novelty of the proposed method lies in the possibility to identify the terrain type relying not only on classical appearance-based features, such as color and geometric properties, but also on contact-based features, which measure the dynamic effects related to the vehicle-terrain interaction and directly affect vehicle's mobility. Using methods from the machine learning community, it is shown that it is not only possible to classify various kinds of terrain using either sensor modality, but that these modalities are complementary to each other, and can be therefore combined to improve classification results.
keywords: {Image color analysis;Robot sensing systems;Wheels;Resistance;Roads;Torque;Mobile robots},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352153&isnumber=8352140

M. Lörincz, A. Oláh and K. Tornai, "An effective neuron based method for process control in industrial environment," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 69-74.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352154
Abstract: In this paper two different neuron-based level controllers are proposed and compared for a buffer tank application. One of them is a classical single-neuron PID (SN-PID) implementation with different activation functions and the other is a sensor-based neuron (SBN). The two neuron-based solutions have a novel weight-training algorithm which runs continuously and is based on a modified Delta learning rule. The paper presents the general behaviour, and the stability properties of the proposed control methods under different actuator characteristics and conditions. A simple buffer tank system has been simulated using the FluidControlSim — an open source fluid simulator. The numerical performance analysis shows that the modified Delta learning rule has excellent stability and SBN method exceeds the SN-PID in most cases.
keywords: {Neurons;Valves;Meters;Control systems;Training;Industries;Process control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352154&isnumber=8352140

J. M. Rossell, J. Vicente-Rodrigo, J. Rúbio-Massegú and V. Barcons, "An effective strategy of real-time vision-based control for a Stewart platform," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 75-80.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352155
Abstract: A Stewart platform is a kind of parallel robot which can be used for a wide variety of technological and industrial applications. In this paper, a Stewart platform designed and assembled at the Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya (UPC) by our research group is presented. The main objective is to overcome the enormous difficulties that arise when a real-time vision-based control of a fast moving object placed on these mechanisms is required. In addition, a description of its geometric characteristics, the calibration process, together with an illustrative experiment to demonstrate the good behavior of the platform is given.
keywords: {Legged locomotion;Calibration;Real-time systems;Kinematics;Smart cameras;Actuators;Stewart platform;parallel robots;inverse kinematics;vision-based control;tracking control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352155&isnumber=8352140

R. Xiao, Z. Wang, Z. Chen and J. Shen, "Anti-swing design for overhead crane based on dual sliding mode control," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 81-86.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352156
Abstract: A dual sliding mode based controller (DSMC) is proposed to suppress the payload swing and adjust the crane position precisely for the overhead crane system. The friction coefficient between the crane and the cable is considered for the nonlinear system. The DSMC is employed for the adjustment of the crane position and the payload swing, integral and differential terms are added into the design of the sliding surface. In order to eliminate the chattering caused by conventional switching function, the variable exponent reaching law is implemented. Simulation and experiment show that DSMC exhibits satisfied robustness for the anti-swing control system.
keywords: {Cranes;Payloads;Mathematical model;Sliding mode control;Nonlinear systems;Switches;Robustness;Overhead crane;dual sliding mode control;anti-swing;variable exponent reaching law;nonlinear system},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352156&isnumber=8352140

L. C. S⊘rensen, R. S. Andersen, C. Schou and D. Kraft, "Automatic parameter learning for easy instruction of industrial collaborative robots," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 87-92.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352157
Abstract: The manufacturing industry faces challenges in meeting requirements of flexibility, product variability and small batch sizes. Automation of high mix, low volume productions requires faster (re)configuration of manufacturing equipment. These demands are to some extend accommodated by collaborative robots. Certain actions can still be hard or impossible to manually adjust due to inherent process uncertainties. This paper proposes a generic iteratively learning approach based on Bayesian Optimisation to efficiently search for the optimal set of process parameters. The approach takes into account the process uncertainties by iteratively making a statistical founded choice on the next parameter-set to examine only based on the prior binomial outcomes. Moreover, our function estimator uses Wilson Score to make proper estimates on the success probability and the associated uncertain measure of sparsely sampled regions. The function estimator also generalises the experiment outcomes to the neighbour region through kernel smoothing by integrating Kernel Density Estimation. Our approach is applied to a real industrial task with significant process uncertainties, where sufficiently robust process parameters cannot intuitively be chosen. Using our approach, a collaborative robot automatically finds a reliable solution.
keywords: {Uncertainty;Task analysis;Collaboration;Service robots;Measurement uncertainty;Programming;industrial assembly;parameter optimisation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352157&isnumber=8352140

T. Bentaleb, M. T. Pham, D. Eberard and W. Marquis-Favre, "Bond graph modeling and analysis of intermediary cooling system of a nuclear power plants," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 93-98.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352158
Abstract: This paper presents a bond graph (BG) model and a physical structural analysis of an intermediary cooling system of a power plant. The main goal is to extend the techniques already in use for the physical structural analysis of mechatronic systems to perform static analysis and diagnosis on physical models in order to state whether they are well-posed and suitable for each step of the system's lifecycle (from its design to its operation). If a problem for modeling, for simulating or for solving the given engineering question is detected, the analysis shall localize the problem in the model and give the physical interpretation of the error. The objective is not to be able to diagnose all possible physical errors, but to add another type of analysis in order to improve error detection before compiling and running a model.
keywords: {Valves;Analytical models;Cooling;Electron tubes;Energy storage;Numerical models;Heat pumps;bond graph model;intermediary cooling system;nuclear power plants},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352158&isnumber=8352140

Y. Tsuchiya, D. Yashiro, K. Yubai and S. Komada, "Contact force control of tilt-rotor helicopter in 2-dimensional space," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 99-104.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352159
Abstract: Contact force control of a helicopter allows for achieving aerial tasks that require contact motions with objects. Although force control systems for multi-rotor helicopter whose tilt angle is not variable have been already achieved, force control systems for a multi-rotor helicopter whose tilt angle is variable (tilt-rotor helicopter) have not been achieved yet. Therefore, in this paper, a contact force control system for a fully-actuated 3 degrees-of-freedom (DoF) tilt-rotor helicopter is proposed, and its validity is verified by simulations and experiments.
keywords: {Helicopters;Rotors;Force;Force control;Trajectory;Contacts},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352159&isnumber=8352140

H. Maki and S. Katsura, "Control for stochastic tracking error minimization based on state entropy with neural network," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 105-110.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352160
Abstract: It is well known that when the disturbance in the nonlinear system has whiteness, the error between the output of the system and the desired output does not show whiteness. Considering the adaptive system, the mean square evaluation function is often not sufficient for this problem. In recent years, entropy has been attracting attention as an evaluation function changing to the mean square criterion. Beginning with entropy of Shannon, its characteristics are related to higher-order statistics. When entropy is minimized, all moments of error are constrained. Especially in dynamic modeling, the entropy's criterion is more robust than that of MSE. In this research, we focus on correntrop, which has expanded Renyi's entropy more generally, consider controlling and updating the controller by the neural network. For state estimation of correntropy, state change of entropy of error is taken into account by explicitly using state quantity of control rather than time series data set. We confirm by simulation that the proposed method makes the probability density function of the error sharper.
keywords: {Entropy;Probability density function;Neural networks;Estimation;Kernel;Time series analysis;Error correction codes},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352160&isnumber=8352140

G. V. Pacheco, R. H. M. Fonseca, V. E. Neto and A. S. Brandao, "Control signal weighting for robot formation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 111-116.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352161
Abstract: This paper presents a strategy to guide multiple robots in a virtual non-flexible structure. To accomplish positioning and trajectory tasks, the formation control is implemented using the Multi-Layer Control Scheme (MLCS). The MLCS performs the formation control task splitting the group of robots in triangular formation, and then each triangular formation is guided individually by the scheme considering the triangular formations trajectories translated from the group barycenter. Besides that, this work presents a simple strategy to automate the identification of the triangular formation sequence, which is crucial to compute the transformation functions of the formation to the robots variables. It is also proposed two strategies to combine and weight the robot control signals, since each robot may receive control signals from various formations. The proposals are tested in a 4-robot formation simulation using the MobileSim framework and the weighting strategies are evaluated using performance indices.
keywords: {Robot kinematics;Task analysis;Navigation;Robot sensing systems;Planning;Trajectory;Cooperative navigation;Multi-layer Control Scheme;Multiple agents},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352161&isnumber=8352140

T. Atsumi, "Coordinated system with tracking-position and flying-height controls for magnetic heads in HDDs," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 117-122.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352162
Abstract: To improve positioning accuracy of a magnetic head in hard disk drives (HDDs), a triple-stage-actuator system was proposed with a thermal positioning actuator for a magnetic head positioning system. This positioning system has three types of actuators: a voice coil motor (VCM), piezoelectric (PZT) actuators, and the thermal positioning actuator. The thermal actuator systems have simple characteristics without mechanical resonant modes even in a high frequency range. As a result, the triple-stage-actuator system enable us to improve the positioning accuracy during a track-following control from conventional dual-stage-actuator systems. However, the thermal positioning actuator causes flying height fluctuations of the magnetic head that could lead to fall of magnetic recording performances. In HDDs, the magnetic head has another heater located in a vertical direction of read/write elements in order to control flying height of the read/write elements. This control system is called thermal flying height control system. In the previous study, we can compensate for the flying-height fluctuations by using a feedforward control scheme of the thermal flying-height control system. However, the feedforward control has little robustness against the plant perturbations. To address this issue, this paper employs a two-degree-of-freedom (TDOF) control scheme for the coordinated control with the thermal positioning control and the thermal flying-height control systems. By using proposed TDOF method, we can compensate for the flying-height fluctuations against the plant perturbations.
keywords: {Actuators;Magnetic heads;Frequency response;Mathematical model;Adaptive control;Heating systems;hard disk drive;positioning system;micro actuator},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352162&isnumber=8352140

I. A. Seleem, S. F. M. Assal and A. M. Mohamed, "Cyclic gait planning and control of underactuated five-link biped robot during single support and impact phases for normal walking," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 123-128.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352163
Abstract: Gait planning is an important key in motion control of biped robots. This paper focuses on developing a cyclic gait based on capturing real human data using Kinect-V2 camera and a control for normal walking of underactuated five-link biped robot during the SSP and impact phase. Since human motion is done optimally following the principle of optimality, the ankle and hip trajectories of a human subject during single support phase (SSP) are captured, filtered and averaged over steps to remove random variations in the data. The ankle and hip trajectories are fitted using suitable polynomial functions depending on geometrical, velocity and acceleration constraints. Then, the desired joint angle profiles are obtained as a function of those ankle and hip trajectories using inverse kinematics. Additionally, feedback linearization algorithm for controlling and stabilizing the underactuated biped during normal walking is proposed. The mathematical model of underactuated biped robot is divided into two subsystems: actuated states and underactuated one. In order to control and stabilize all these system states, the control signals of actuated states affect the underactuated state indirectly. The controller parameters are optimized using Genetic Algorithm. Finally, the stability analysis of the biped robot during normal walking is discussed using the linearized Poincare map. The results show that the proposed gait trajectory generation and control are suitable for the underactuated biped robot to walk normally in a natural manner. Also, the biped accurately follows the desired trajectories.
keywords: {Trajectory;Legged locomotion;Hip;Mathematical model;Robot sensing systems;Cameras;biped robot;gait trajectory;Kinect;underactuation;feedback linearization control;Genetic Algorithm;Poincare map},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352163&isnumber=8352140

F. Perez, A. Iovine, G. Damm and P. Ribeiro, "DC microgrid voltage stability by dynamic feedback linearization," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 129-134.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352164
Abstract: Recent developments in power electronics and renewable energy sources have brought the risen of Direct Current (DC) Microgrids. By power converters' utilization, a DC Microgrid is able to integrate renewables, storage systems, and other devices in a simpler topology, since the major part of the modern grid's compounds have DC nature. This paper proposes a control strategy aiming to regulate the voltage in the DC bus of a Microgrid by a supercapacitor. The control law is applied to a bidirectional boost converter that connects the supercapacitor to the DC grid. The control scheme is based on dynamical feedback linearization and consists in splitting the system in different time scale dynamics, creating consequently a simplified model. Simulations on Matlab/Simulink illustrate how the control strategy is able to regulate the DC voltage with good performance.
keywords: {Microgrids;Voltage control;Supercapacitors;Batteries;Integrated circuit modeling;Stability analysis;Equivalent circuits;DC Microgrids control;voltage stability;Feedback linearization;Nonlinear control;Power converters},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352164&isnumber=8352140

C. Latrech, A. Chaibet, M. Boukhnifer and S. Glaser, "Decentralized observer-based fuzzy control for interconnected networked control systems with quantization and random packets dropout," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 135-140.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352165
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of decentralized observer-based control for a class of discrete large-scale Takagi-Sugeno (TS) fuzzy systems in the presence of control quantization and random packets dropout, occurring in the controller-to-actuator, in the sense of stochastic stability. Thus, based on fuzzy Lyapunov candidate function, sufficient stability conditions formulated in Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMIs) terms are proposed. In order to solve the nonlinear problem, a cone complementarity formulation and variables changes are offered. Finally, a numerical example is considered ensuring the stability of the decentralized Networked control systems (DNCSs).
keywords: {Observers;Quantization (signal);Silicon;Fuzzy systems;Stability analysis;Networked control systems;Actuators;Decentralized observer-based networked control;Takagi-Sugeno (TS);quantization;random packets dropout},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352165&isnumber=8352140

H. Muramatsu and S. Katsura, "Design of a skill-learning system based on human-motion reproduction," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 141-146.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352166
Abstract: Professional human skills are important in many works. Accordingly, professional skill learning is also an important issue to improve quality of a human work such as medical care. This paper proposes a human-motion-reproduction method which has different learning structures. To consider both position and force information of human motions, a motion-copying system which stores and reproduces human motions based on a bilateral control structure is employed in the proposed control system. Modal space to design the structure of the proposed motion-reproduction method is also introduced. Experiments verified a learning example using several structures of the proposed motion-reproduction.
keywords: {Force;Acceleration;Aerospace electronics;Robots;Manganese;Motion control;Bilateral control;disturbance observer;motion control system;skill learning},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352166&isnumber=8352140

K. Benali, J. Brethé, F. Guérin and M. Gorka, "Dual arm robot manipulator for grasping boxes of different dimensions in a logistics warehouse," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 147-152.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352167
Abstract: This paper presents a new motion controller for object manipulation in 6D-space with a dual-arm robot manipulator. Current industrial systems often consist of a single robot arm commanded through a teach pendant. These systems are unable to pick and place boxes with different dimensions due to the restrictive specifications of their end-effector, which is restrictive. Our work involves a dual-arm humanoid robot with two Universal Robots (UR10) arms and a torso (CROM) for manipulating big and/or heavy objects. The motion controller has been designed for coordinated manipulation according to the desired trajectory of the object. To prevent the objects from drifting and falling, an adaptive master/slave controller proposed for hybrid force-motion control is implemented using sensors located at the end-effectors. The different components (arms, torso, camera, force sensors...) of the system are controlled using ROS, which is an open-source meta-operating system distributed for research and development in robotics.
keywords: {Force;Robot kinematics;End effectors;Torso;Task analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352167&isnumber=8352140

F. J. Ruiz-Sanchez, "Dynamic properties of velocity fields encoding contouring tasks for feedback control design," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 153-158.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352168
Abstract: In this paper, the author analyzes the dynamic properties of Velocity Fields when they are used to code contouring tasks for feedback control design. These properties determine the expected motion of a system immersed in the field, forced to follow its flow lines, and introduce a formal approach to establish the connection between the motion in the Cartesian space and its analytic description in the form of a sliding mode. The analysis is intended to provide control engineers of supplementary information about the intuitive description of the desired motion described by the Velocity Fields and the dynamic induced in the system when they are used as a reference to improve the control design. Starting with a description of the Vector Fields designed for contouring tasks, the author discusses about their structure emulating the variable structure systems to force the closed-loop dynamics, with respect to the tracking velocity error, to approach to and move on the contouring surface where the flow lines of the field define a sliding condition of the contouring and tracking errors where the largest invariant set is the desired path on the contouring surface. Finally, he illustrates the complementary use of these dynamic properties for control purposes analyzing the stability of a general mechanical system in a closed loop configuration with a simple control law proportional to the tracking velocity error.
keywords: {Dynamics;Trajectory;Task analysis;Tracking;Variable structure systems;Kinematics;Manifolds},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352168&isnumber=8352140

N. Motoi, H. Kimura and M. Kobayashi, "Experimental operability evaluation of remote control with force feedback for mobile robot," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 159-164.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352169
Abstract: This paper describes the experimental operability evaluation of a remote control method with a force feedback for a mobile robot. By using the force feedback in the remote control system, it is possible to recognize the environmental information as the tactile sensation. In the conventional remote control methods, the force feedback is generated based on the geometric position relation between the mobile robot and environment. On the other hand, this paper shows the force feedback based on the collision prediction. The steering type control device with the tactile force feedback is utilized. In addition, the visual sensor is added to the remote control system for the visual feedback. Therefore, the operator manipulates the control device based on the visual and tactile information. In order to evaluate these remote control methods, the experimental results by 5 subjects are shown. The operability improvement by using the remote control method based on the collision prediction was experimentally proved.
keywords: {Force;Mobile robots;Force feedback;Angular velocity;Visualization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352169&isnumber=8352140

A. Jebelli, M. C. E. Yagoub and B. S. Dhillon, "Feedback linearization approach to fault tolerance for a micro quadrotor," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 165-168.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352170
Abstract: Maintaining the proper operation of a flying object, such as a micro-quadrotor, despite the loss of one rotor is of crucial importance in the case of unmanned flying robots. Therefore, the purpose of the present work is to design a controller to address this issue. Based on the Fault Tolerant Control (FTC) method, the proposed design uses inner and outer rings to efficiently maintain the balance and roll, pitch, and yaw angles as well as the altitude of a quadrotor flying robot after the loss of a rotor.
keywords: {Robot kinematics;Rotors;Fault tolerant systems;Feedback linearization;Fault tolerant control;UAV;Fault Tolerance;Quadrotor;Flying Robot},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352170&isnumber=8352140

A. Y. Al-Maliki and K. Iqbal, "FLC-based PID controller tuning for sensorless speed control of DC motor," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 169-174.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352171
Abstract: This study addresses the sensorless speed control of a permanent magnet DC motor using non-ideal voltage and current sensors. A Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) type speed controller with Kalman Filter (KF) estimator was used and Integral of Absolute Error (IAE), peak overshoot and settling time were chosen as performance indices. Though KF helped reduce the noise, the PID controller gains tuned via MATLAB resulted in large peak overshoot and IAE with a relatively long settling time. In comparison, a Fuzzy Logic Controller (FLC) based PID (FLC-PID), tuned using genetic algorithms (GA), reduced the settling times by 75.98%, and the IAE and the maximum overshoot by 56.2% and 97.89% respectively. Compared to the conventional PID without KF, the FLC-PID radically improved the reference command speed tracking and sudden load changes disturbance rejection for the dc motor model.
keywords: {DC motors;Kalman filters;Mathematical model;Sensors;Current measurement;Torque;Covariance matrices;DC Motor control;Sensorless speed control;PID;FLC;FLC-PID;Genetic Algorithm},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352171&isnumber=8352140

J. Albrektsson and J. Åslund, "Fuel optimal control of an off-road transport mission," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 175-180.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352172
Abstract: To coordinate and optimise an off-road transport mission, on which a wheel loader and two articulated haulers cooperate, a fuel-optimal control algorithm is developed. The control algorithm utilises Pareto fronts of fuel consumption versus cycle time to establish optimal cycle times for the different sub-tasks. Human machine interfaces (HMI) are built to convey the optimal control signals to the operators. The control signal to the hauler operators is vehicle speed and to the loader operator it is cycle time. The system is tested in real world conditions and a fuel efficiency increase of 9% is found when compared to a baseline representing the situation where the machine operators have little knowledge about the cooperating machines activities and low eco driving skills.
keywords: {Fuels;Optimization;Gears;Trajectory;Loading;Wheels},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352172&isnumber=8352140

M. Dlapa, "General parametric and periodic uncertainties and time delay robust control design toolbox," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 181-186.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352173
Abstract: The paper presents the Robust Control Toolbox for Time Delay Systems with Parametric and Periodic Uncertainties for the Matlab system. The toolbox defines controlled plant as general 3rd order system with parametric and periodic uncertainties in numerator and denominator of plant transfer function and uncertain time delay. The uncertain time delay is treated using multiplicative uncertainty, the parametric uncertainty is modelled using general interconnection for the systems with parametric uncertainty in numerator and denominator. The toolbox comprises user-friendly graphical interface empowering intuitive control and the tools for both D-K iteration and algebraic approach. The algebraic approach part implements evolutionary algorithm Differential Migration and pole placement for general 3rd order system with evaluation via structured singular value.
keywords: {Erbium;parametric uncertainty;structured singular value;Matlab toolbox;global optimization;direct search methods},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352173&isnumber=8352140

M. Anvaripour and M. Saif, "Hand gesture recognition using force myography of the forearm activities and optimized features," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 187-192.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352174
Abstract: Hand gesture recognition has emerged as an attractive and promising method in human-machine interaction. Applying the simple, efficient and inexpensive devices is necessary for this kind of the application. In this paper, we propose a novel hand gesture recognition by investigating the forearm muscles movement data processing sensed by an array of 8 Force Sensor Resistor (FSR). The acquired data is sent by the wireless device to the processing unit that is more convenient for users. The feature extraction scheme is proposed to get some useful information about the data. A graph of the FSR sensed signals are constructed by considering the extracted features from them. Weights of the graph edge are computed by finding the differences between correspondents pair of sensors. Multiobjective optimization is applied to find the optimum parameters and providing the best description of the sensors' relations in each class. The proposed approach will be evaluated by conducting experiments. 10 volunteered persons participated in gathering FMG data in different classes of the hand gestures. As the results show the proposed method has good performance to recognize hand gestures and has almost 93% accuracy in the overall.
keywords: {Feature extraction;Sensors;Muscles;Optimization;Mathematical model;Gesture recognition;Support vector machines;Force Myography;Hand gestures;Feature extraction;Multiobjective optimization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352174&isnumber=8352140

A. Sakalli, O. Aktekin and U. Kiran, "Hardware in the Loop (HiL) testing of a human electric hybrid vehicle," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 193-198.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352175
Abstract: Human Powered Vehicles (HPVs) are one of the evolving concepts for today's urban transportation especially for the short distance daily usage. The major reasons behind this evolution are the advantages of HPV applications in the sense of price, efficiency and environmental concerns. This paper presents preliminary Hardware in the Loop (HiL) testing results of a HPV combined with electric motor via series-parallel powertrain which is named as Human Electric Hybrid (HEH) vehicle. The mechanical overview of the powertrain components, the explanations of the HEH vehicle operating modes and the torque control algorithm are discussed. The HiL testing results introduced in this paper are obtained with the usage of a full-sized ETAS HiL simulator employed in order to provide an effective testing platform by increasing the comprehensiveness of the plant to be controlled. The HiL experimental results reveal that the series-parallel hybrid powertrain architecture increases the efficiency and the human contribution over a drive cycle.
keywords: {Torque;Mechanical power transmission;Testing;Gears;Vehicles;Software;Drives;Hybrid Electric Vehicle;Human Electric Hybrid;Hardware in the Loop},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352175&isnumber=8352140

T. Cho, H. Hwang, B. Kim and I. Lee, "Implementation of a fault diagnosis system using neural networks for solar panel," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 199-204.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352176
Abstract: In this paper, we developed a fault diagnosis system using neural networks for solar panel of solar street light. To perform a fault diagnosis of solar panel, we obtained the Open Circuit Voltage according to the duty ratio and it is used as input of Adaptive Resonance Theory 2 Neural Network (ART2 NN) and Multilayer Neural Network (MNN). As a result, we can double-check fault diagnosis for solar panel by using two neural networks through GUI and solar panel fault diagnosis is correctly estimated. So it is expected that the fault diagnosis system we proposed will be applicable to similar systems and devices.
keywords: {Solar panels;Fault diagnosis;Artificial neural networks;Circuit faults;Multi-layer neural network;Monitoring;Solar panel;fault diagnosis;open circuit voltage;ART2 NN;MNN},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352176&isnumber=8352140

J. Ito and T. Atsumi, "Improvement of H∞ controller by using RBode plot for magnetic-head positioning system in HDDs," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 205-210.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352177
Abstract: In this paper, we present a design method of a robust controller for the magnetic-head positioning system in HDDs based on the H∞ control theory and the Robust Bode (RBode). The RBode plot represents robust performance criteria as allowable and forbidden areas on Bode diagrams. Using the RBode plot, we can easily improve an existing feedback controller with visualized guidelines in order to compensate for disturbances against plant perturbations for a magnetic-head positioning system in a hard disk drive. With the RBode plot method, we need frequency characteristics data of the controlled object and weighting functions. Thus, there is no need to construct transfer function models of controlled objects. Simulation results with the HDD benchmark problem showed that the proposed method enable us to improve the positioning accuracy from the initial H∞ controller by about 11% without losing stabilities of the control system.
keywords: {Gain;Robustness;Frequency response;Frequency control;Sensitivity;Resonant frequency;Control systems;hard disk drive;positioning system;robust control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352177&isnumber=8352140

S. Lee and J. Lyou, "Improvement of the ATS system for safety on the three-aspect railway signaling system in conventional line," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 211-216.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352178
Abstract: The ATS-S1, which is being used in some of the conventional railway lines of Korea Railroad, will only sound an alarm at the stop signal and return by confirmation of the driver's handling. In this case, there are risk factors of accidents such as entry of stop signal and speeding due to human error. Therefore, we consider the application of the ATS-S2 system which can prevent the over speed by continuous surveillance the train speed and prevent the train accident due to the human error by the driver.
keywords: {Communication system signaling;Accidents;Vehicles;Safety;Brakes;Resonant frequency;Rail transportation;ATS;Automatic Train Stop;Railway Signaling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352178&isnumber=8352140

M. Suzuki, S. Yokota, A. Matsumoto, D. Chugo and H. Hashimoto, "Liquid feeding system using cooperative towing by multiple drones — 2nd Report: Position estimation of each drones based on catenary theory and tensile force of tube," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 217-222.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352179
Abstract: Recently, some spraying systems have been proposed that use a drone towing a liquid tube. However, towable tube length is limited due to the payload of a drone, and there is a possibility of liquid leakage from the tube or that the drone will fall. To solve these problems, this research proposes a liquid feeding system where the tube and cables are towed cooperatively by multiple drones. By using multiple drones, the length of the towable tube can be longer, and the working space can be enlarged. In addition, if the power cable is also towed together with the tube the amount of time the drone can be used will increase because a battery will not be necessary. In particular, this paper verifies the position estimation method of each drones by applying the tensile force vector using load cell and 2 axis potentiometers into the catenary theory. The result showed that the positions of each endpoint of the tube were correctly estimated.
keywords: {Drones;Electron tubes;Force;Liquids;Force measurement;Mathematical model;Estimation;drone;catenary theory;localozation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352179&isnumber=8352140

T. Usami, K. Yubai, D. Yashiro and S. Komada, "Low-order multivariable weighting function design for H∞ loop shaping method based on ν-gap," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 223-228.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352180
Abstract: The H∞ loop shaping method is known as one of the robust controller design method achieving good control performance and robustness. In this method, the final controller consists of weighting functions and a stabilizing controller. Control performance based on the open-loop shaping is decided by designing of weighting functions. However, if weighting functions are not suitable, the stabilizing controller may change the gain characteristic of the open-loop function to improve robust stability margin. In this case, design of weighting functions is often required in terms of achieving desired performance. Moreover, this method takes much time to build a mathematical model of an actual plant and its uncertainty. This paper proposes a low-order weighting function design method using only frequency responses for MIMO (Multi-Input-Multi-Output) systems. These weighting functions guarantee the desired performance level of the designed controller. Therefore, the time-consuming process is reduced. The effectiveness of the proposed method is verified through the experiment.
keywords: {Design methodology;Robust stability;Optimization;Robustness;Mathematical model;Closed loop systems;Sensitivity},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352180&isnumber=8352140

R. J. A. Lopes, D. M. Sousa, P. J. Sebastião and A. E. V. Roque, "Microcontroller of the power supply of a fast field cycling relaxometer," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 229-233.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352181
Abstract: This paper describes aspects of the implementation of a digital control system to be used in a Fast Field Cycling (FFC) Nuclear Magnetic Resonance relaxometer (NMR). This technique is very demanding from the point of view of experimental equipment requiring a modulation of the magnetic flux density, and that, the magnetic flux density cycles between homogeneous, steady-state regimes, with switching times within 1–3 ms for most experiments with soft materials. The main purpose of this paper is the development of a digital control system capable of modulating the Zeeman field of a FFC-NMR relaxometer. The developed embedded system is replacing the analog controller currently used in the main power supply of FFC equipment. This is accomplished with the use of a Microchip dsPIC microcontroller and implementing some additional filters and driving on-chip peripherals to interface with sensors and power electronic devices. The software and hardware were designed to allow fast transitions as required in a FFC-NMR measurement. The experimental results show that transitions between the high polarization field and a low relaxation field are successfully realized fulfilling the FFC-NMR specifications.
keywords: {Power supplies;Digital control;Insulated gate bipolar transistors;Magnetic flux density;Switches;Magnetic fields;Nuclear Magnetic Resonance;Fast Field Cycling Relaxometer;Digital Control;Power Supply;Microcontroller},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352181&isnumber=8352140

M. Saeed, M. Fanni and A. M. Mohamed, "Modeling and control of a new aerial manipulation system of a Hybrid Ground Aerial Robot," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 234-238.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352182
Abstract: The idea of a novel Hybrid Ground Aerial robot (HGAR) which combines flying capability and ground motion capability in one robot is briefly described. The HGAR has two independent configurations, flying configuration and ground motion configuration. In the previous studies, the eccentric manipulator that is attached to one propeller arm is used to manipulate objects during ground motion only. Here, we aim to use it to manipulate objects during flying as well. The eccentric location of the manipulator adds difficulties to the control tasks which is not investigated before. The manipulator consists of three links and a gripper. The motion of the manipulator induces moments and forces on the HGAR flying platform which are handled as disturbances in the proposed control algorithm. The system modeling and stabilization of the flying platform under such manipulation disturbances are the aims of this work. Kinematic and dynamic analysis have been established during flying. The flying system controller is designed based on Robust Internal compensator (RIC) method which is tested to track trajectory and provide stability under manipulation disturbances. Finally, simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of RIC controller to achieve excellent tracking performance and stabilize the HGAR during the manipulator movements.
keywords: {Manipulator dynamics;Robustness;Acceleration;Propellers;Dynamics;HGAR;aerial manipulation system;Robust Internal compensator;Flying platform},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352182&isnumber=8352140

K. Eggers, E. Knöchelmann, S. Tappe and T. Ortmaier, "Modeling and experimental validation of the influence of robot temperature on its energy consumption," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 239-243.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352183
Abstract: This paper presents an approach to significantly improve modeling accuracy for the power and energy demands of industrial robots. This is achieved by taking the temperature dependency of the joint's viscuous friction parameters into account. While the connection is commonly known, it is usually neglected in state-of-the-art energy consumption models for industrial robots. This paper shows that a consideration of temperature-dependent friction provides significant improvement of energy modeling accuracy. The approach is validated on a test rig with a KUKA KR 16 robotic manipulator. Measurements show that the grid energy consumption modeling error can be reduced from up to 45 % to approx. 5 % over the whole spectrum of operating temperatures.
keywords: {Temperature measurement;Service robots;Friction;Power demand;Energy consumption;Energy measurement;Industrial Robotics;Energy Efficiency;Robot Temperature;Friction Modeling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352183&isnumber=8352140

Z. Elmi and M. Ö. Efe, "Multi-objective grasshopper optimization algorithm for robot path planning in static environments," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 244-249.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352184
Abstract: Finding the most appropriate path in robot navigation has been an interesting challenge in recent years. A number of different techniques have been proposed to address this problem. Heuristic methods are one of them that have been efficiently used in many complex and multi-dimensional optimization problems. In this paper, we present a new algorithm for robot path planning in a static environment. The main aim is to use a multi objective method to minimize several metrics such as cost, distance, energy or time. Distance, path smoothness and robot path planning time is optimized in the current work. The contribution of this work is to calculate an appropriate fitness function at each iteration to achieve the best solution. The obtained result is compared with the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm. The proposed algorithm displays better performance characteristics in terms of time and path smoothness than PSO algorithm and the obtained path lengths are shorter than those obtained with PSO.
keywords: {Path planning;Optimization;Navigation;Mobile robots;Particle swarm optimization;Linear programming;Path Planning;Mobile Multi-Robot;Grasshopper Optimization Algorithm;Obstacle Avoidance;Static Environment},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352184&isnumber=8352140

A. Izadbakhsh and P. Kheirkhahan, "Nonlinear PID control of electrical flexible joint robots-Theory and experimental verification," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 250-255.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352185
Abstract: Almost, any back-stepping based control strategy proposed for position control of flexible joint electrically driven robots (FJEDR) require convergence of internal signals to its desired value called as fictitious control signal. This problem is complicated and time consuming, whereas each joint of the robot is described by a 5th-order differential equation. The best idea is that we focus on the convergence of main signal, while the other signals remain bounded, which in turns reduce the control law dimension and its implementation costs. Robust tracking control of electrically flexible joint robots has been addressed in this paper. The proposed approach is related to the key role of electrical subsystem of the actuators. Thus, it is free from mechanical subsystem of the motor dynamics, considered here as unmodeled dynamics. It is proved that the actuator/link position errors are Uniformly-Ultimately Bounded (UUB) stable in agreement with Lyapunov's direct method in any finite region of the state space while other signals remain bounded. The analytical studies as well as experimental results produced using MATLAB/SIMULINK external mode control on a flexible-joint electrically driven robot demonstrate high performance of the proposed control scheme.
keywords: {Robustness;Actuators;Stability analysis;Manipulator dynamics;Convergence;Actuator saturation;dead-zone;flexible-joint robot;UUB stability;Nonlinear PID},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352185&isnumber=8352140

G. S. Chadha, F. Westbrink, T. Schütte and A. Schwung, "Optimal dosing of bulk material using mass-flow estimation and DEM simulation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 256-261.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352186
Abstract: This paper presents a novel methodology for coarse and fine dosing of bulk material. The dosing system considered in this study is a rotary valve with six chambers driven by an asynchronous motor controlled by a frequency inverter. The approach for optimal coarse dosing is based on the mass-flow estimation for multiple chambers of the bulk material wherein a closed-loop control design is developed. For fine dosing, a Discrete Element Method simulation of the rotary valve system is implemented to estimate the mass flow for a single chamber of the rotary valve. The estimation of the mass flow per unit degree opening angle is expressed as a function with the help of artificial neural networks. Both the mass-flow estimation results are implemented in the control system of a Bulk Good Laboratory Plant and experimental results show good accuracy for optimal bulk dosing.
keywords: {Estimation;Valves;Computational modeling;Mathematical model;Trajectory;Rotors;Plastics;Coarse & Fine Dosing;Discrete Element Method;Artificial Neural Network;Mass-flow Estimation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352186&isnumber=8352140

S. Vafadar, A. Olabi and M. S. Panahi, "Optimal motion planning of mobile manipulators with minimum number of platform movements," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 262-267.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352187
Abstract: In many practical applications the end effector of a mobile robotic manipulator is required to reach a set of desired positions and orientations. This is commonly achieved through a combination of platform repositionings and manipulator reconfigurations. Considering the fact that precise repositioning of the platform of an articulated mobile robot is complex and time-consuming, we propose a novel motion planning approach that would minimize the number of platform repositionings and manipulator reconfigurations for place to place tasks. The proposed approach would also guarantee that the joint limits are not crossed and obstacles are avoided. The approach comprises two steps. First the optimal manipulator configurations corresponding to desired end-effector poses are determined and then successive optimal configurations are connected with minimal paths. Rapidly-Exploring Random Trees (RRTs) are used to design configuration-connecting paths. Results of simulated experiments on a 10 DOF mobile manipulator have demonstrated the applicability and effectiveness of the proposed approach.
keywords: {Manipulators;Task analysis;Optimization;Planning;Linear programming;Kinematics;mobile robotic manipulator;motion planning;inverse kinematics;obstacle avoidance},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352187&isnumber=8352140

N. Xavier and B. Bandyopadhyay, "Periodically monotonic tracking using intermittent control with multirate output feedback," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 274-279.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352189
Abstract: In this paper, we proposes a discrete-time intermittent control to obtain a periodically monotonic tracking response using output feedback for a discretized linear time invariant system. In periodic intermittent control, the control is applied for some time interval and then we are not able to apply the control for the next few time interval. This cycle is repeated periodically. The periodically monotonic tracking is achieved by the periodically intermittent control by exploiting the Moore's algorithm for the eigen-structure assignment. Then a multirate output feedback technique is proposed for the designed control such that we are able to compute the control only using the output information. The simulation results are given to verify the theoretical analysis.
keywords: {Output feedback;Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions;State feedback;System dynamics;Steady-state;Time invariant systems;Tracking control;step response;intermittent control;discretized systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352189&isnumber=8352140

K. Yagi and N. Hori, "Plant-input-mapping discretization in state-space form," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 280-285.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352190
Abstract: The digital redesign technique called the Plant-Input-Mapping (PIM) method, which was developed previously in the transfer-function form, has been extended to a state-space based method, making the application of the method to multi-input multi-output systems easier. The transfer-function-based design uses the matched-pole-zero discretization, which is available only for single-input single-output systems, to satisfy the control-zero-principle. In the present study, the role of the principle is interpreted in the form of the uncontrollable modes under an observer-based state feedback structure. The step invariant model of the underlying continuous-time closed-loop system is used as the reference model, and the parameters of the digital controller are determined to match the discrete-time closed-loop system with this reference model. The resulting PIM controller guarantees the stability for any non-pathological sampling intervals as in the conventional transfer-function-based PIM and its superior performances to conventional digital redesign techniques are verified through some numerical simulations.
keywords: {Closed loop systems;Mathematical model;Stability analysis;Transfer functions;Observers;Numerical stability;Standards;Discretization;Plant-Input-Mapping;MIMO systems;Observer-based State-Feedback;Uncontrollability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352190&isnumber=8352140

K. Torikai and S. Katsura, "Position control of 2-DOF resonant system based on modal-space control design," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 286-291.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352191
Abstract: Advanced robotic systems have been developed to realize robot society, a mechanism and a control theory of these systems have been researched for a long time. Due to some advantages such as low cost, safety and weight saving, these systems with a flexible mechanism are required in the future. However, the fast response of such systems which is regarded as a resonant system induces a vibration caused by mechanical resonances. Therefore, a lot of motion control theories for resonant system have been extensively researched to improve motion response, most of these control theories are directed to the state of tip mass. This paper focuses on control theory for the position of middle load mass and the length of a three-mass resonant system, proposes position control theory of 2-DOF resonant system. In this paper, some controllers are designed in modal space, such as the common mode and the differential mode. Generally, since a three-mass resonant system has the 1st resonance and the 2nd resonance, the control target is suppression of two resonances. The 1st resonance is suppressed by differential mode controllers, and the the 2nd resonance is suppressed by common mode controllers in this paper. Experiments verify the effectiveness of the proposed control theory.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352191&isnumber=8352140

L. Ghiormez, M. Panoiu, C. Panoiu and C. Pop, "Power control of an electric arc furnace using intelligent techniques," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 292-297.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352192
Abstract: In this research is proposed a control system used to obtain the maximum or a specific power of an electric arc. The plant taken into consideration is a three-phase electric arc furnace that is supplied from a special transformer. The process is modeled using an exponential model of the electric arc. By simulating the model in Matlab/Simulink environment the arc powers for five of the transformer's taps were obtained. Also by ranging the arc length value in a specific domain was obtained the optimal length to achieve the maximum power for a specific tap. In the closed-loop control system is used a fuzzy controller. In order to test the system performance the control system is tested in two cases. Fist case is at injection of disturbances in the process, the transformer is set on a specific tap and the set-point value is varied in a specific domain. The second case in when are injected disturbances in the process, the transformer tap is changed and the set-point value is kept constant at a power representing the maximum arc power for each of the transformer's tap.
keywords: {Control systems;System performance;Electrodes;electric arc;fuzzy controller;control system;arc power;system performance},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352192&isnumber=8352140

M. R. Fajani, A. Izadbakhsh and A. H. Ghazvinipour, "Recurrent neural network based second order sliding mode control of redundant robot manipulators," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 298-303.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352193
Abstract: In this paper, the second-order sliding-mode control approach integrated with the recurrence neural network (RNN) is applied to the redundant robot manipulator. In order to design the joints trajectories, first, the performance index is defined as the sum of squares of the final trace tracking error. Then, regarding the constraint of joints physical condition, a constrained optimization problem is obtained. Using projection theory, the dynamic model of RNN is extracted. The simplicity of RNN structure and its high convergence analysis are of the main features. To design second-order sliding-mode control law, first, the proper sliding surface is defined. Then, using the modified sliding condition, the control law is extracted. The controller momently applied the last data of the RNN as the reference input. Simulations are applied to the 7-DOF PA-10 robot manipulator.
keywords: {Second Order Sliding Mode Control;Recurrent Neural Network;Projection Theorom;Redundant Robot Manipulator},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352193&isnumber=8352140

G. S. Franco and F. Le Bars, "Robust polygon-based localization," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 304-309.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352194
Abstract: The current work presents an approach that is able to estimate the pose of a robot even when all rangefinder measurements are originated by unknown obstacles. This approach exploits the shape of the boundaries of an environment, displaced according to the rangefinder measurements, to determine the set of possible poses the robot may have. By using interval analysis to compute its estimation, this method suits well to scenarios where no knowledge about the probabilistic density function of the measurements is provided. Comparing to classical interval approaches, this method does not expect that the robot has a perfect knowledge of the environment. This way, this approach can compute a feasible estimation even in presence of unknown obstacles without using time-consuming techniques such as Q-Relaxed Intersection or GOMNE. For validation, we present a comparison between the proposed method in this paper to a classical interval approach to the robot's localization problem.
keywords: {Estimation;Mathematical model;Robot localization;Particle separators;Robot sensing systems;Windings;Robotics;Interval Analysis;Localization;Rangefinders},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352194&isnumber=8352140

A. A. Yaseen and M. Bayart, "Synthesis of model-free control for system with time-varying communication delay," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 310-315.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352195
Abstract: Nowadays, the model-free control scheme has led to numerous convincing applications. However, the applications of model-free control in Networked Control System (NCS) is still limited because of its weakness to process the time-varying delay which usually appears in this type of networks. This paper proposes a new method to adapt model-free controller to improve its use in NCS. This method suggests a new structure of model-free control. The main idea is based on mutual benefit between Smith predictor and the basic model-free controller. The basic model-free control will provide the required information about the plant model which will make Smith predictor free from any model information requirements. On other hand, Smith predictor will move the effect of time delay outside the closed loop of model-free control. The test result of the proposed method shows that the method can significantly help to synthesis of model-free control in NCS.
keywords: {Adaptation models;Predictive models;Delay effects;Delays;Mathematical model;Estimation;Numerical models;Time delay;networked control system;Smith predictor;model-free control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352195&isnumber=8352140

J. Sawma, F. Khatounian, E. Monmasson, R. Ghosn and L. Idkhajine, "The effect of prediction horizons in MPC for first order linear systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 316-321.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352196
Abstract: Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithms are computationally intensive optimization based control techniques. Their complexity significantly increases when the cost function prediction horizon increases. This problem is more pronounced when applying this techniques to systems having fast dynamics, in this case the prediction horizon length is limited by the calculation power of the processor. The use of long prediction horizons should provide healthier results than single prediction horizon yet prediction horizon equal to one are widely used for the control of electrical system and are achieving beneficial results. This paper proves mathematically that in some special cases of MPC applied to first order systems the use of a prediction horizon equal to one is similar to the use of a prediction horizon greater than one. An MPC algorithm is then applied for the control of the current of an RL load driven by an H-Bridge, multiple prediction horizon are used and results are compared.
keywords: {Cost function;Prediction algorithms;Linear systems;Signal processing algorithms;Predictive control;Control systems;Prediction horizon;model predictive control;electrical systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352196&isnumber=8352140

P. P. Singh, J. P. Singh and B. K. Roy, "Tracking control and synchronization of Bhalekar-Gejji chaotic systems using active backstepping control," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 322-326.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352197
Abstract: In this paper, active backstepping control technique is employed to design control laws for trajectory tracking and synchronization of Bhalekar-Gejji (BG) chaotic system. The designed controllers are capable of stabilizing the BG chaotic system at any position and also controlling it to track the desired trajectory which is smooth function of time. The designed controllers are effective to achieve the synchronization between BG chaotic systems excited from different initial conditions. Lyapunov's stability theory is used to ensure the stability and convergence of error dynamics. The results are simulated in the MATLAB. MATLAB simulation results reflect that the objectives are successfully achieved.
keywords: {C# languages;Synchronization;Backstepping Control;Chaotic System Synchronization;Lyapunov's Stability Theory},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352197&isnumber=8352140

M. R. Boukhari, A. Chaibet, M. Boukhnifer and S. Glaser, "Voting algorithm approach for autonomous vehicle safe driving," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 327-332.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352198
Abstract: The aim of this paper is to assess three voting algorithms ensuring fault tolerance for an autonomous vehicle. Thus, by using a vehicle longitudinal dynamic model and a SHERPA/VEDECOM sensors model, the emphasis is to ensure a reliable inter-distance measurement to the controller in both faultless and faulty scenarios. The simulation results show the effectiveness of the designed algorithms to provide fault tolerance; nonetheless, some disparities are noticed between the voting algorithms in terms of performance.
keywords: {Sensors;Heuristic algorithms;Fault tolerance;Fault tolerant systems;Autonomous vehicles;History;Voting Algorithms;Fault Tolerant Control;Vehicle Perception;Sensors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352198&isnumber=8352140

"TT electrical machines and drives," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 333-334.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352199
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352199&isnumber=8352140

S. Yavuz, N. Parspour and L. Ma, "Analytical modelling of a parametrized switched reluctance motor with adapting flux tube method," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 335-340.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352200
Abstract: This paper develops an analytical model of a parametrized Switched Reluctance Machine (SRM). The method of magnetic equivalent circuit is used to calculate the nonlinear magnetization characteristic and torque behavior of the SRM. The airgap is described with flux tubes of different shape. The shape of the flux tubes is adapted depending on the rotor position. The model considers the magnetic saturation of iron. Therefore the Flux Ratio Criterion (FRC) method is applied to determine the cross section of reluctance elements in saturated regions. This newly developed analytical model is valid for different geometry parameters, so that it can be used for motor optimization. The analytical results are compared with simulation results of Finite Element Method (FEM).
keywords: {Rotors;Electron tubes;Reluctance motors;Mathematical model;Stator cores;Atmospheric modeling;switched reluctance motor;flux tube;analytical model;switched reluctance machine;flux ratio criterion},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352200&isnumber=8352140

T. K. Nguyen, I. Azarkh, B. Nicolle, G. Jacquemod and E. Dekneuvel, "Applying NIALM technology to predictive maintenance for industrial machines," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 341-345.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352201
Abstract: The disadvantage of the predictive maintenance approach is to increase the investment in diagnostic system and staff training, and the saving potential may not be seen when the machines are working in their good condition. Moreover, a predictive maintenance system so far can monitor only one machine that puts this solution in only very important and sensitive machines. This paper proposes an innovation method for monitoring in real-time and predicting simultaneously the status of many industrial inductive machines. Moreover, this solution can also provide an energy efficiency service to improve performance of machine and to optimize the operation cost.
keywords: {Monitoring;Power quality;Harmonic analysis;Predictive maintenance;Power system harmonics;Standards;Real-time systems;Energy efficiency;NIALM;EN50160;Power Quality;Predictive Maintenance;Induction Machine},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352201&isnumber=8352140

F. Lorenz, R. Werner and M. Föse, "Claw pole generator with adapted efficiency curve for small scale wind turbines," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 346-351.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352202
Abstract: This paper presents the design of an electrically excited claw pole generator with an adapted efficiency curve for the use of regenerative energy sources in the range of low power up to 2000 watt. The concept is based on the use of a directly driven, electrically excited synchronous generator, which allows the use of the relatively low speeds of, e.g. wind and water turbines or stirling engines without a transmission gear. The operating point of maximum efficiency can be adjusted due to the variable excitation to the technically most favorable operating range of the system. The focus is on the use in small wind turbines whose potential in domestic and low-wind locations has been largely untapped so far. Chapters II and III present the design and technical implementation of the machine. Chapter IV shows the measurement results of the stationary and thermal behavior.
keywords: {Hafnium;claw pole generator;synchronous machine;renewable energy;wind;efficiency},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352202&isnumber=8352140

G. F. Lukman, K. -I. Jeong, D. -H. Lee and J. -W. Ahn, "Comparative analysis of 4/2 and 6/4 poles switched reluctance motors for electric supercharger," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 352-357.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352203
Abstract: In this paper, comparative analysis of 4/2 and 6/4 poles high-speed Switched Reluctance Motors (SRMs) for electric supercharger (ESC) is executed. Radial force is known to be the biggest cause of stator vibration. Stator geometry of the proposed motors is optimized to reduce radial force which may lead to reduced stator vibration. A speed control by Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS), which receives speed error as input and current reference as output, is adopted in high speed region for easier and faster implementation. The characteristics of the motors are examined with finite element analysis (FEA) in Ansoft Maxwell while the response time of the motor is simulated in MATLAB Simulink. Both motor performances are also compared.
keywords: {Reluctance motors;Force;Stator windings;Rotors;Vibrations;Switched Reluctance Motor;high-speed;radial force;electric supercharger},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352203&isnumber=8352140

Y. Rkhissi-Kammoun, J. Ghommam, M. Boukhnifer and F. Mnif, "Current sensor fault-tolerant control scheme for induction machine in electric vehicle applications using RISE-algebraic estimation approach," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 358-363.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352204
Abstract: This paper describes an active current sensor fault-tolerant control (FTC) scheme for an induction motor (IM) drives that propels an Electric Vehicle (EV). The proposed strategy includes two parts : one part for fault detection and isolation (FDI) against the line current sensor failures and the other for the FTC reconfiguration. A model based FDI method is developed consisting on a combination of the Robust Integral Sign of the Error (RISE) observer with the algebraic approach to estimate the current residuals dynamics in the stationary reference frame. After detecting the fault occurrence, a decision-making logic unit is then performed to identify the faulty sensors and simultaneously calculates the appropriate current signal that will be used by a Field-Oriented Control (FOC) based speed control scheme. The proposed sensor FTC strategy can be universally applied with any speed control schemes involving IM drives. Besides, the developed fault estimator is simple with a 1-D model, depending only on the input-output measurements and their derivatives and do not require a bank of observers. The robustness of the generated residuals to load torque disturbances and the ability of diagnosing the recovery of a sensor from a fault are also demonstrated. Simulation are carried out to show the effectiveness of the proposed FTC architecture.
keywords: {Current measurement;Rotors;Mathematical model;Observers;Stators;Fault tolerance;Fault tolerant systems;Current sensor;sensor fault detection and isolation (FDI);fault-tolerant control;differential-algebraic;induction-motor (IM) drives;electric vehicle},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352204&isnumber=8352140

C. B. D. Eddine, B. Azzeddine and B. Mokhtar, "Detection of a two-level inverter open-circuit fault using the discrete wavelet transforms technique," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 370-376.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352206
Abstract: Three-phase static converters with voltage structure are widely used in many industrial systems. In order to prevent the propagation of the fault to other components of the system and ensure continuity of service in the event of a failure of the converter, efficient and fast methods of detection and localization must be implemented. This paper work addresses a diagnostic technique based on the discrete wavelet transforms (DWT) for the detection of an inverter IGBT open-circuit switch fault. The study focuses on the investigation of the harmonics (related to the obtained details) which may appear in the spectrum due to the faults. To illustrate the merits of the technique and validate the results, experimental tests are conducted using a built voltage inverter fed induction motor. The inverter is controlled by the SVM control strategy.
keywords: {Inverters;Discrete wavelet transforms;Induction motors;Circuit faults;Insulated gate bipolar transistors;Switches;Inverter;diagnostic;detection;open-circuit;discrete wavelet;decomposition;spectrum},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352206&isnumber=8352140

M. Comanescu, "Development of a robust sliding mode observer for the rotor time constant inverse of the induction motor," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 377-382.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352207
Abstract: The paper presents a method to estimate the inverse of the rotor time constant of the induction motor. Estimation is done using a sliding mode observer which is developed based on the model of the motor in the synchronous reference frame. The method considers that the flux magnitude is known - this is estimated using a voltage model observer. In addition, the field-orientation angle is available; with this, the currents id and iq are used to generate the feedback terms of the observer. The observer needs a speed signal and, since speed should not be measured, it is fed with a speed estimate (which is assumed inaccurate). Under these conditions, it is normal to have an inaccurate output; however, the paper proposes a gains design that allows to reduce the error in the estimated rotor time constant. Simulations and experiments validate the design.
keywords: {Rotors;Observers;Induction motors;Mathematical model;Stators;Current measurement;induction motor control;sensorless control;sliding mode observer;rotor time constant estimation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352207&isnumber=8352140

M. Lehr, D. Dietz and A. Binder, "Electromagnetic design of a permanent magnet Flux-Switching-Machine as a direct-driven 3 MW wind power generator," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 383-388.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352208
Abstract: In this paper the design of a permanent magnet excited Flux-Switching-Machine (FSPM) for the use as a direct driven 3 MW wind power generator with a speed n = 15 rpm and a torque M = 1.9 MNm is shown. Based on an already designed and tested 28-pole three-phase permanent magnet Flux-Switching-Machine as variable-speed industrial drive for 400 V Y, 45 kW, 1000 ... 3000 rpm, the basic geometrical dimensions are derived and some design rules for Flux-Switching-Machines are explained. The designed FSPM is compared with a conventional permanent magnet synchronous machine (PMSM) with rotor surface-mounted magnets and similar dimensions. Finally, the special characteristics of Flux-Switching-Machines and the differences to permanent magnet synchronous machines with rotor surface-mounted magnets are highlighted.
keywords: {Rotors;Magnetic flux;Stator windings;Torque;Air gaps;Reactive power;Flux-Switching-Machine;Wind power generator;Permanent magnet synchronous machine},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352208&isnumber=8352140

A. A. Kumar and G. R. Bindu, "Energy efficient drive system for domestic and agriculture applications: A comparative study of SPIM and SRM drives," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 389-394.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352209
Abstract: Domestic appliances employing electrical energy are becoming more demanding in terms of increased efficiency and improved functionality. Commonly used home appliances such as mixer-grinders, food processors and water-lifting pumps are low cost-technology products, sold in high volumes. Hence efficiency improvement in this area results in larger savings of energy, which is extremely important in the context of sustainable development. The Single Phase Induction Motor (SPIM) is one of the major workhorse in such applications. This paper examines the possibility of utilizing Switched Reluctance Motor (SRM) in such applications. The paper mainly focuses on the energy efficiency of SPIM and SRM including the control aspects of both drives. Analytical and Finite Element Methods (FEM) are employed for the designing of the motors which are further validated through experiment. It is clear from the results that, SRM gives better performance in terms of energy efficiency and speed control as compared to the commonly used SPIM Drive and hence is a better alternative in view of energy conservation.
keywords: {Reluctance motors;Mathematical model;Finite element analysis;Velocity control;Torque;Windings;Switched Reluctance Motor;Drives;Domestic;Appliances Drives},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352209&isnumber=8352140

Y. Quérel et al., "Evaluation of an evaporative cooling solution for hybrid and electrical vehicles motors," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 395-400.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352210
Abstract: Thermal management is one of the main issues to design compact and high power electric motors for automotive application. Evaporative cooling is already well used in electric devices such as inverters. It appears as an interesting solution for motors because it can evacuate large amount of energy with a low temperature gradient. This paper deals with the benefits on copper coil current density that an evaporative cooling method can provide. To achieve this goal, tests are performed on wires submerged into different 3M™ Novec™ fluids. The heat flux and the current density behaviors are studied. Finally, the possibilities of rising the motor current density to increase its torque or to improve its efficiency and the use of evaporative cooling in motors are discussed.
keywords: {Evaporative cooling;Electrical vehicles motors;Current density;Phase change cooling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352210&isnumber=8352140

O. Al-Tamimi and M. Kassas, "Experimental investigation of energy consumption of VFD and ON/OFF A/C systems in residential area in Saudi Arabia," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 401-406.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352211
Abstract: In recent years, energy savings in air-conditioning (A/C) systems has become one of the hot topics of applied energy towards innovative management and efficient utilization of the operating systems. Achieving thermal comfort with minimum energy consumption is the main concern for innovative designing of an air conditioning system. The A/C system is the chief contributor to energy consumption in hot and humid areas. An innovative design of an A/C operating system is essential to satisfy a high thermal performance and maintain the desired thermal comfort level. The aim of this work was to experiment the thermal performance and the energy consumptions of A/C units for two identical houses located in the Dhahran area of Saudi Arabia. In this case, the experiment work for both houses has been conducted incorporating two different air-conditioning systems. These include a conventional ON/OFF cycle A/C system and a variable frequency drive (VFD) A/C system. LabView platform with the data acquisition has been utilized for the experimental work to monitor the actual climate and power consumption. The analyses pertain to the assessment of energy consumptions and energy savings. The variable frequency drive controller provides higher efficiency and lower cost of A/C systems. Consequently, comparing the behavior of the energy consumption for both A/C units shows a clear and strong correlation between them.
keywords: {Temperature measurement;Energy consumption;Temperature sensors;Power demand;Humidity;Temperature distribution;Air-Conditioning;Energy Consumption;Energy Savings;Variable Frequency Drives VFD;ON/OFF A/C},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352211&isnumber=8352140

S. E. Pandarakone, M. Masuko, Y. Mizuno and H. Nakamura, "Fault classification of outer-race bearing damage in low-voltage induction motor with aid of fourier analysis and SVM," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 407-412.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352212
Abstract: The usage of induction motor is getting increased and the necessity for condition monitoring and preservation have been raised to a greater extent. Early identification of faults in electrical motors, particularly in induction motors has become necessary in the industrial environment. Among the components of induction motor, bearing plays a crucial role and the fault occurring in it has been considered as the main contributors to the origin of failure. In most of the research work, single hole is considered as a faulty factor, but the requirement to detect the physical location of fault in bearing is becoming necessary and increasing over years. Even though various analysis methods including vibrational analysis have been used to detect the bearing faults, identification and diagnosis of fault still needs further research. Hence, in the present paper, the bearing fault analysis is carried out and an identification method of localization and the number of holes is proposed by considering the physical location of the fault. Experimental results are obtained for two cases of bearing failure; location of fault and number of holes. At first, the frequency domain features are obtained from Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) of load current. Secondly, the Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm is used to classify and diagnose the different types of bearing faults. Finally, the experimental and diagnostic results are likely to validate the proposed method.
keywords: {Induction motors;Fault diagnosis;Spectral analysis;Feature extraction;Failure analysis;Support vector machines;Mathematical model;Induction motor;bearing failure;physical location;localization;number of holes;spectral analysis;svm},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352212&isnumber=8352140

S. Kamala, B. D. Reddy, B. Sen, S. K. Panda and G. Amaratunga, "Improvement of power quality and reliability in the distribution system of petrochemical plants using active power filters," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 419-424.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352214
Abstract: Variable speed drives (VSDs) are used extensively for pumping/compressor operations in petrochemical plants of the Jurong Island in Singapore. The VSDs draws harmonic current from the mains which causes power quality issues in the system. Passive harmonic mitigation techniques, 12-pulse/24-pulse transformers are being used in the petrochemical plant to minimize the voltage/current harmonics because of their lower cost and higher reliability, but these methods are less efficient. This paper investigates the power quality and reliability improvement in the petrochemical plants by using active power filters (APFs). The study has been conducted in the petrochemical plant distribution system by connecting an active front end (AFE) converter and shunt active power filter (SAF) with the 6-pulse drive system in place of conventional 12-pulse rectifier-drive system. Simulation were carried out in MATLAB/Simulink environment for 1 MW drive system with 12-pulse rectifier, 6-pulse rectifier with the SAF and the system with AFE. Subsequently, reliability assessment has been carried out for the three test systems under study in DIgSILENT Power Factory simulation software. Harmonic mitigation methodologies are verified through a down scale experimental laboratory setup of 7.5 kW motor drive system to check the effectiveness active harmonic mitigation methodologies.
keywords: {Reliability;Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Power system reliability;Petrochemicals;Active filters;Reactive power;12-pulse/24-pulse transformer;active power filter;failure rate;mean time to repair (MTTR);power quality;reliability;shunt active filter (SAF);variable speed drives (VSDs)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352214&isnumber=8352140

K. V. P. Kumar and T. V. Kumar, "Improvised direct torque control strategies of open end winding PMSM fed with multi-level inversion," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 425-430.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352215
Abstract: In this article, an improvised voltage switching scheme is implemented for an open end winding PMSM (OEWPMSM) to reduce torque ripple using direct torque control (DTC) technique. This article focuses on the comparative study of various direct torque control schemes for an open end winding PMSM. The classical DTC can control torque and flux whereas, in this article, two different DTC methods are implemented for an OEWPMSM. The first method is used to monitor electromagnetic torque and d-axis current and second method is to control electromagnetic torque and reactive torque of the motor. The proposed DTC schemes are simulated using MATLAB, and the obtained results are compared with classical DTC. From simulation results, it is evident that the proposed methods give lesser ripple in torque.
keywords: {Torque;Torque control;Switches;Electromagnetics;Stator windings;Inverters;Direct torque control;open end winding PMSM;torque ripple;multi-level inversion;reactive torque control and d-axis current control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352215&isnumber=8352140

L. Souad, B. Azzedine, C. B. D. Eddine, B. Boualem, M. Samir and M. Youcef, "Induction machine rotor and stator faults detection by applying the DTW and N-F network," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 431-436.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352216
Abstract: The work carried out in this paper addresses the field of monitoring and diagnosing induction machine faults, namely the turns in short-circuit, the broken rotor bar faults and the combined turns in short-circuit and broken rotor bar fault. The design of a system for monitoring, detecting and locating faults since their birth, for different loads of the machine, is achieved by the use of intelligent advanced techniques. The technique applied in this work is based on neuro-fuzzy (N-F) networks of ANFIS-type whose knowledge base makes use of indicators derived from discrete wavelet transform (DWT) analysis and spectral analysis of the stator current of the machine (FFT), which allows, in addition to the detection, the evaluation of the number of broken bars and the position of the turns in short-circuit.
keywords: {Stators;Circuit faults;Rotors;Harmonic analysis;Bars;Discrete wavelet transforms;Induction machines;Spectral analysis;FFT;DWT;N-F;diagnostic;rotor fault;stator fault;squirrel cage motor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352216&isnumber=8352140

J. Faiz and A. Jafari, "Interturn fault diagnosis in brushless direct current motors — A review," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 437-444.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352217
Abstract: Brushless direct current (BLDC) motors are widely used in many industries in recent years, therefore, fault diagnosis of these motors is receiving more attention. So, it is necessary to apply fault diagnosis techniques to the motor and its drive and find appropriate index for fault detection. This paper reviews the interturn fault diagnosis methods in BLDC motors and their drawbacks and advantages are studied and compared. Finally, suitable techniques from applicability and cost point of views are recommended.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Torque;Brushless DC motors;Fault diagnosis;Permanent magnet motors;brushless direct current (BLDC) motors;fault diagnosis techniques;inter-turn fault},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352217&isnumber=8352140

M. Kassas and O. Al-Tamimi, "Investigation of energy saving in HVAC systems: Modeling, simulation, and measurement using fuzzy logic controller," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 445-450.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352218
Abstract: Achieving thermal comfort with minimum energy consumption is the main requirement in designing the air conditioning system. The aim of this work is to investigate energy saving in two different types of air conditioning systems installed in two identical houses located at a university campus in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. The conventional A/C system is equipped with an ON/OFF cycle and new the technology A/C system is equipped with variable frequency drive (VFD) both of which have been modeled by two different control strategies. The controllers are Fuzzy Logic Controllers (FLC) and Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID). The thermal model for both houses has been developed with two different types of air-conditioning systems. LabVIEW platform is utilized for measuring the environment parameters and power consumption. It is found that the thermal comfort level of the house along with significant energy saving can be obtained through a proper selection of controller parameters. This paper shows that through utilizing a variable speed compressor and selecting the suitable control technique, the indoor environment of the house is able to be controlled with a great amount of energy saving.
keywords: {Temperature measurement;Fuzzy logic;Atmospheric modeling;Mathematical model;Temperature distribution;Energy consumption;Air conditioning;Air-Conditioning;Energy Consumption;Energy Savings;Variable Frequency Drives VFD;Fuzzy Logic Controller;PID Controller;ON/OFF Cycle},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352218&isnumber=8352140

Y. Mollet, M. Sarrazin, H. Van der Auweraer and J. Gyselinck, "Investigation of the influence of open-phase faults on noise and vibrations of switched reluctance machines," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 451-456.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352219
Abstract: Switched reluctance machines (SRMs) benefit from simple and cheap design and inherent fault tolerance, but still suffer from torque ripple and noise, vibration and harshness (NVH) issues. This paper experimentally investigates the influence of an open-phase fault on a 15 kW 8/6 SRM in terms of NVH and torque ripple by comparing run-ups with and without fault. The use of speed-frequency plots allows for an easy distinction between speed orders and structural resonances. Results show that even speed orders are amplified and damped in the vibration and sound-pressure-wave measurements in faulty and healthy conditions respectively. At low speeds, the sixth speed order also appears in the torque, due to the non-activation of one phase. This order however tends to disappear at high speed, due to the filtering effect of the mechanical inertia of the test bench.
keywords: {Torque;Reluctance motors;Vibrations;Stators;Rotors;Torque measurement;switched-reluctance machine;noise & vibration;open-phase fault;transient condition;spectrogram},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352219&isnumber=8352140

L. Ferraris, E. Poskovic and F. Franchini, "Magnetic circuits and materials for excitation of magnetocaloric systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 462-467.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352221
Abstract: Magnetocaloric materials are promising in the realization of some thermodynamic machines in substitution of high thermal capacitance fluids. The authors focused on the choice of a suitable material for a refrigerator or a chiller, evaluating excitation induction, temperature range and temperature-entropy product. The authors further concentrated on different magnetic excitation circuits and materials, including traditional and bonded magnets and Halbach magnetization. For each proposed configuration the suitable permanent magnet excitation materials are indicated.
keywords: {Magnetic circuits;Permanent magnets;Perpendicular magnetic anisotropy;Soft magnetic materials;Magnetic flux;Magnetic liquids;magnetocaloric effect (MCE);magnetic refrigeration;Halbach pattern;permanent magnets;bonded magnets;magnetic circuit},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352221&isnumber=8352140

P. Mendonça and D. M. Sousa, "Multi voltage converter for rail interoperability," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 468-474.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352222
Abstract: Throughout Europe and the World there are many different rail voltage supply levels depending on the region where the infrastructure is. Regardless of the nature of the infrastructure being for heavy or light rail operations, there are differences on the feeding line voltage even in the same country. For light rail is common a DC voltage of 600 V or 750 V and for heavy rail is common 1.5 kVDC, 3 kVDC, 15 kVAC and 25 kVAC. - Different voltage levels constitute a problem for the interoperability, not only within the heavy rail infrastructures, but as well as, between heavy and light infrastructures. To overcome this technical issue, over the years it has been increasing the number of hybrid vehicles that are a fusion between a tram and a train (tram-train), which benefits from electrical systems capable of operating with different voltage levels, thus allowing a multimodal service. This way, these vehicles, can operate as a tram in the light rail infrastructures and as a commuter train in the heavy rail infrastructures.-This paper describes a multi-level converter, to be used in tram-train vehicles, considering standard voltage levels for heavy and light rail operation. This converter will be prepared for 600 VDC, 750 VDC, 3 kVDC, 15 kV 162/3Hz and 25 kVAC 50Hz. It is capable of traction using only a battery pack and an ultracapacitor pack onboard. It is designed to power 6 traction motors installed in 3 bogies. The system is dimensioned to operate in conditions necessary for a tram-train service. A system model was built and simulated and the results show that is possible to operate the vehicle in such conditions with good efficiency and good performance.
keywords: {Traction motors;Batteries;Switches;Voltage control;Supercapacitors;Urban areas;Rails;Interoperability;Traction converter;Light rail;Adaptive converter;Multi-voltage converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352222&isnumber=8352140

S. Baka, S. Sashidhar and B. G. Fernandes, "Multi-barrier two-pole line-start synchronous reluctance motor with high saliency for a bore-well submersible pump," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 475-480.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352223
Abstract: Energy efficiency of low and medium power range electric motors is one of the major concerns in the present day world, since they contribute to a major portion of the energy demand. The motors in this power range are mainly used for domestic, industrial and irrigation water pumps. Usually, either submersible induction motors or permanent magnet (PM) motors are employed. However, the efficiency and cost of these motors, respectively is one of their drawbacks. In this paper, a 2-pole multi-barrier line-start synchronous reluctance motor (LS SyRM) is proposed for a 6-inch bore-well submersible water pump. Further, two new rotor geometries with high saliency are compared and analyzed in terms of their starting and steady-state performance using 2D-finite element analysis. Finally, one rotor model is adjudicated for the bore-well pump application.
keywords: {Rotors;Reluctance motors;Induction motors;Permanent magnet motors;Stators;Underwater vehicles;Line-start;saliency;two-pole;reluctance motor;bore-well},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352223&isnumber=8352140

A. Kiselev, A. Kuznietsov and R. Leidhold, "Performance investigation of generalized predictive position control for a PMSM in view of reference trajectory tracking," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 481-485.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352224
Abstract: In this paper, the research emphasis focuses on the investigation of tracking performance, provided by generalized predictive control (GPC) algorithm as position controller for a permanent magnet synchronous motor (PMSM). For this aim, a previously developed Laguerre functions extended GPC algorithm with explicit current and voltage constraint consideration is used for tracking a pre-known reference position trajectory. In order to evaluate the GPC tracking performance, the obtained results are compared to the tracking results, provided by the conventional PI-based field oriented control (FOC).
keywords: {Prediction algorithms;Position control;Trajectory;Mathematical model;Predictive control;Frequency response;Synchronous motors;Model Predictive Control;Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor;Position Control;Trajectory Tracking},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352224&isnumber=8352140

L. Pravica, M. Kutija and D. Sumina, "Permanent magnet generator q-axis inductance adaptation using high-frequency signal injection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 486-491.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352225
Abstract: The model-based rotor position estimation methods for permanent magnet generators (PMGs) are susceptible to machine parameter variations, especially inductances which are operating point dependent. This paper presents a PMG apparent q-axis inductance adaptation method which is used with the PLL-based rotor position estimation methods to improve their accuracy. These methods exhibit position estimation error if the used q-axis inductance value is incorrect. The proposed method extracts the position estimation error by using high-frequency signal injection technique and improves the accuracy of the estimated rotor position by determining the correct value of the q-axis inductance. Upon obtaining correct q-axis inductance value, current references are adjusted to provide accurate torque reference tracking. Experimental verification of the proposed method was done on a 375 kW PMG. The experimental results show the effectiveness of the proposed method.
keywords: {Rotors;Stators;Inductance;Adaptation models;Torque;Estimation error;Permanent magnet generators (PMGs);parameter estimation;high-frequency (HF) injection;sensorless drives},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352225&isnumber=8352140

K. Imai, S. Doki, K. Fujii and S. Jung, "Position sensorless control for wound-field synchronous motor with double three-phase wound stator using extended electromotive force model," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 492-497.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352226
Abstract: In this paper, a position sensorless control method for the Wound-Field Synchronous Motor with Double Three-phase wound stator(D-WFSM) in middle or high speed driving is proposed. Extended electromotive force observer used commonly for PMSMs is selected for the target motor's position sensorless control method. However, the method is mainly used for motors with single-set stator and that for motors with two-set stator has not been applied. This is the first time to apply the position sensorless method based on extended electromotive force into WFSMs and two-set motors. Therefore, in this paper, a new extended electromotive force model for two-set motors is proposed. Then, the effectiveness of the proposed method is verified through experiments.
keywords: {Force;Observers;Mathematical model;Sensorless control;Synchronous motors;Stator windings;Rotors;Double three-phase wound;high speed;position sensorless control;wound-field synchronous motor;extended electromotive force},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352226&isnumber=8352140

K. V. P. Kumar and T. V. Kumar, "Predictive torque control strategy of an Open-End Winding Induction Motor Drive with less common-mode voltage," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 498-503.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352227
Abstract: Direct Torque Control (DTC) and Predictive Torque Control (PTC) Strategies emerged as popular techniques for speed control of Induction Motor Drives. In this article, an effective PTC strategy is introduced to an Open-End Winding Induction Motor Drive (OEWIMD) to control torque and flux directly. PTC offers all the features of classical DTC and it provides lesser ripple in torque and flux. The limitations of classical PTC are: (i) higher common-mode voltage (ii) variable switching frequency (iii) high computational burden and (iii) selection of weighting factors. To trounce some of these problems PTC of OEWIMD is developed. OEWIMD is operated with dual inverter configuration. In dual inverter configuration, if the inverters are operated with equal DC bus voltages (1:1 ratio), it can deliver ‘18’ space vector locations, out of these space vector locations only six active space vectors and a null vector has been considered. The voltage vectors used to implement the proposed algorithm can maintain less common-mode voltage. The proposed algorithm is verified by comparing the obtained experimental results with simulation results.
keywords: {Inverters;Torque;Induction motor drives;Aerospace electronics;Torque control;Stators;Direct Torque Control;Predictive Torque Control;Open-End Winding Induction Motor Drive;Torque Control;Flux Control and Common-mode Voltage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352227&isnumber=8352140

W. Tsunoda, A. Chiba and T. Shinshi, "Radial excitation force generated by permanent magnet motor using d-axis current injection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 504-509.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352228
Abstract: This paper proposes a dynamic characteristics measurement method for condition monitoring in a rotor system with a permanent magnet (PM) motor. The PM motor is used not only as a torque generator but also as an exciter for measuring the dynamic characteristics of the rotor system. The radial excitation force is generated by current injection into the d-axis motor windings under eccentricity. The principle of the radial excitation force generation is theoretically discussed in this paper. Furthermore, the force is numerically calculated and experimentally measured to verify the proposed excitation method. It becomes clear that the radial force from the motor windings is proportional to the d-axis current and eccentricity. Thus, the force can be used to measure the frequency response functions of rotor systems as a stability index under eccentricities such as unbalanced vibration.
keywords: {Force;Rotors;Permanent magnet motors;Synchronous motors;Windings;Dynamics;Oils;Vibration of rotating body;Condition monitoring;Permanent magnet synchronous motor;Frequency response analysis;Bearingless motor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352228&isnumber=8352140

J. Fan and J. -W. Ahn, "Research on direct torque control of switched reluctance motor with improved commutation strategy," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 510-515.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352229
Abstract: Direct torque control (DTC) of switched reluctance motor (SRM) is one of the simple and effective torque control methods aim at the reduction of torque ripple and the acquisition of high accuracy torque control. However, due to the nonlinearity of SRM, the control quality can be worse during commutation. This paper analyzes the principle of conventional DTC and explains why the torque is not control well when commutation occurs. A new commutation strategy considering the SRM nature and using the prediction of torque change rate is proposed in this paper. Simulation results show that the proposed method has largely improved the torque control quality compared with the traditional DTC.
keywords: {Torque;Reluctance motors;Commutation;Torque control;Voltage control;Rotors;Switched reluctance motor;direct torque control;commutation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352229&isnumber=8352140

Y. Saadi, R. Sehab, A. Chaibet, M. Boukhnifer and D. Diallo, "Sensorless control of switched reluctance motor for EV application using a sliding mode observer with unknown inputs," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 516-521.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352230
Abstract: This paper deals with the sensorless position control of 8/6 Switched Reluctance Machine used in the drivetrain of an Electric Vehicle. The developed observer could be an excellent alternative to replace the analog position sensor, in case of high maintenance cost, limit lifecycle and safety-driving with a sensor default. The software position sensor based on Sliding Mode Observer consists of estimating the rotor position, the velocity and the torque of the SRM drive with a known and an unknown load torque. The main advantage of the developed observer is to estimate online the variables over all the velocity operation range using only the current and voltage measurements of each phase. However, the proposed observer is implemented in a simulator, where results confirm the reliability and the accuracy of the developed observer comparing to the real rotor position, velocity and machine torque.
keywords: {Torque;Rotors;Observers;Reluctance machines;Sensorless control;Estimation error;Electric Vehicle;Switched Reluctance Machine;position sensorless control;Sliding Mode Observer;rotor position estimation;velocity estimation;machine torque estimation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352230&isnumber=8352140

Y. Saadi, R. Sehab, A. Chaibet, M. Boukhnifer and D. Diallo, "Sensorless control of Switched Reluctance Motor with unknown load torque for EV application using Extended Kalman Filter and second order sliding mode observer," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 522-528.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352231
Abstract: This paper deals with the sensorless position control of 8/6 Switched Reluctance Machine with unknown load torque input of an Electric Vehicle drivetrain based on Extended Kalman Filter and Second Order Sliding mode Observers. The both developed observers could be an excellent alternative to replace the analog position sensor, in case of high maintenance cost, limit lifecycle and safety-driving with a sensor default The software position sensors consist of estimating the rotor position, the velocity and the unknown load torque of the SRM. The main advantage of the developed observers is to estimate online the variables over all the velocity operation range using only the current and voltage measurements of each phase. However, the proposed observers are implemented in a simulator. The simulation results confirm the reliability and the accuracy of the developed observers comparing to the real position, velocity, motor and load torques.
keywords: {Electric Vehicle;Switched Reluctance Machine;position sensorless control;Extended Kalman Filter Observer;Second Order Sliding Mode Observer;rotor position estimation;velocity estimation;machine torque estimation;machine load torque estimation;unknown input},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352231&isnumber=8352140

W. Chung, "Simplified model to solve double noise problems during acceleration of induction motors," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 529-533.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352232
Abstract: The phenomenon of double noise generation during acceleration for induction motors was analyzed. The time-stepping finite element method was used to calculate the magnitude and frequencies of unbalanced magnetic pull (UMP). This UMP can excite a resonance if the frequency of a large UMP coincides with shaft critical speed resulting in undesirable noise and vibration. A simplified model combined with UMP and mechanical behavior is proposed to explain the phenomena. Several motors, including one examined in detail, were used to validate the proposed model. Some methods to solve the noise problem are described.
keywords: {Rotors;Acceleration;Shafts;Induction motors;Vibrations;Stators;Force;Resonance;unbalanced magnetic pull;finite element method;induction motors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352232&isnumber=8352140

M. Comanescu, "Sliding mode speed and load torque observer for core and copper loss minimization control of the induction motor drive," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 534-539.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352233
Abstract: The paper studies the problem of efficiency improvement control of the induction motor drive based on copper and core loss minimization. The main idea is to operate the machine at a certain flux level that places the combined losses at a minimum level, thus improving the efficiency. A sliding mode observer (SMO) is developed to estimate the quantities needed for control implementation: magnetizing currents, speed, and load torque. The SMO uses feedback terms that are constructed using the estimated fluxes in the stationary reference frame. The paper develops a Voltage Model Observer for flux estimation that is specific to the IM model with core loss and involves a small approximation. Estimation of the magnetizing currents allows to set the appropriate flux level in the motor - the scheme proposed controls the speed and flux magnitude of the IM while minimizing the total copper and iron losses.
keywords: {Observers;Core loss;Mathematical model;Induction motors;Torque;Load modeling;Rotors;induction motor drives;voltage model observer;speed estimation;load torque estimation;sliding mode observer;sensorless control;loss minimization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352233&isnumber=8352140

A. Schleicher and R. Werner, "Theoretical and experimental analysis of controllability of a novel bearingless rotary-linear reluctance motor with optimal chessboard toothing," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 540-545.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352234
Abstract: The bearingless rotary-linear reluctance motor is a new compact six degree of freedom drive enabling magnetic levitation, as well as translation and rotation of a ferromagnetic rotor independently. It consists of only two stators with each six poles allowing to control radial and tangential force independently. The tangential force is generated through two-dimensional chessboard toothing of rotor and stator with unified tooth pitch but different toothing offsets for each stator pole. A target function including a worst case power dissipation equivalent of the motor was minimized and thus yield the optimal toothing offsets and proved controllability of the motor. For additional experimental verification, the motor was built up and a trajectory was driven using a position control with which stability could be verified.
keywords: {Force;Stators;Reluctance motors;Rotors;Magnetic levitation;Controllability;Magnetic resonance imaging},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352234&isnumber=8352140

S. Neethu, S. P. Nikam, S. Pal, A. K. Wankhede and B. G. Fernandes, "Toroidal winding with fictitious slots for high speed permanent magnet synchronous motors," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 546-550.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352235
Abstract: Permanent magnet motors fed with sinusoidal currents are gaining more attraction nowadays for various high performance applications. Sinusoidal back emf at the winding terminals is essential for efficient and reliable motor performance. Hence the winding distribution in the stator is significant. This paper presents a novel distributed, double layer toroidal winding with fictitious stator slots for radial PM motors. The proposed winding is simple and is uniformly distributed. The virtual slots in the stator helps in minimizing harmonics in the back emf. Three phase sinusoidal current and sinusoidal back emf results in a constant torque output, with virtually zero torque ripple. Sinusoidal back emf is essential for high speed motors because lower and higher order space harmonics rotating at different speeds to that of the rotor can induce significant eddy currents in the rotor core and permanent magnets resulting in magnet demagnetization and poor motor efficiency. The proposed winding is compared with two other toroidal winding configurations for a high speed motor rated at 70 W, 0.02 Nm at 30000 rpm. MagNet 3-D is used for the Finite Element Analysis (FEA) of the motor and the results are presented. The prototype of the motor with the proposed winding is fabricated for experimental validation and the test results are matching with the FEA results.
keywords: {Windings;Stator windings;Rotors;Permanent magnet motors;Toroidal magnetic fields;Torque;Permanent magnet motors;high speed motors;radial flux motors;finite element analysis;eddy currents},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352235&isnumber=8352140

G. Zhang and A. Yamamoto, "Toward self-sensing of an electrostatic film motor using driving currents," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 551-556.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352236
Abstract: Several kinds of exclusive displacement sensor systems have been proposed for electrostatic film motors, to fully profit from their thin and flexible structures. The existing sensor systems share the same underlying principle, which utilizes a multi-phase high frequency sensing signal to realize the robust and precise displacement sensing. However, high frequency oscillators and amplifiers are required in them, which can increase the complexity of the motor system. This paper proposes a new method to estimate the slider position for the electrostatic film motors based on the characteristics of the motor itself. The proposed method has lower sensing resolution than previous sensor systems, but it can be realized in a much simpler way, contributing to the simple system structure. The displacement will be estimated directly from the driving voltages and currents, by which the sensing system can be simplified. This paper focuses on a synchronous-type motor and analyzes its current characteristics during synchronous operation in theory, based on the capacitance network model of the typical electrostatic film motor. From the theoretical results, it has been known that pulse signals in current features, which can be obtained by removing base waves of the source currents, correspond to the stepwise motion. Because pulse signals change periodically, a new pulse train can be obtained by adding the absolute values of these current features. The slider position can be calculated with a resolution of the electrode pitch, by counting the number of pulse signals in pulse train after binarization. A verification experiment has been done, which has shown that the slider position can be estimated by the proposed method with a resolution of the electrode pitch.
keywords: {Precision engineering;Indexes;Electrostatics;Capacitance;electrostatic film motor;self-sensing;displacement sensor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352236&isnumber=8352140

"TT power electronics," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 557-558.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352237
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352237&isnumber=8352140

T. Lagier et al., "A 100 kW 1.2 kV 20 kHz DC-DC converter prototype based on the Dual Active Bridge topology," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 559-564.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352238
Abstract: This article presents the design, the fabrication, and the test of an isolated DC-DC converter for renewable energy applications. The converter is based on the Dual Active Bridge topology and uses silicon carbide power semiconductors and a medium frequency transformer. The design process covers hardware ranging from the semiconductor die to the complete power converter. For the control, a rapid prototyping approach was used. The experimental validation of the 100 kW prototype is presented.
keywords: {Multichip modules;Temperature measurement;Inductance;Windings;Silicon carbide;DC-DC power converters;Topology;DC grids;Medium frequency transformer;Power converters;Renewable energy;Silicon carbide},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352238&isnumber=8352140

C. Bouguet, N. Ginot and C. Batard, "A CAN network architecture for gate drivers dedicated to wide band gap components," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 565-570.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352239
Abstract: In this paper, an innovative communication network architecture for gate drivers is presented. It is adapted for wide band gap gate drivers, particularly SiC MOSFET, in the working environment of power electronics with high dv/dt of 125kV/μs under 1.5kV. In this paper, aspects linked to the constitution of the entire communication network and its topology are introduced. The design of the section of the network that guarantees the galvanic isolation is detailed. A model of the channel has been established and is described in this paper. The results obtained through this model are exposed for a carrier frequency band going from 300kHz to 30MHz. The latter carrier is used to cross the galvanic isolation barrier. The final choices concerning the parameters considered in the model are specified, as well as the carrier frequency. The electronic structure of the modulator is presented for an application with a bit rate equal to 1Mbit/s.
keywords: {Communication networks;Impedance;Gate drivers;Robustness;Switches;Circuit faults;Logic gates;Communication Channel;Controller Area Network (CAN);Electrical Isolation;Galvanic Isolation;Gate Drivers;Power Electronics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352239&isnumber=8352140

P. E. Bolzan, V. L. Rosa, G. Denardin and R. N. do Prado, "Switched capacitor with dimming feature to feed LED tubular lamp," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 571-574.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352240
Abstract: This paper presents a driver using switched capacitor to feed an LED tubular lamp. Generally, the switched capacitor gain is given by the topology, not by the duty cycle. The proposed converter regulates the output voltage by adjusting the duty cycle, what simplifies the system. This paper presents the operation stages, the design procedure, simulation and experimental results. The load is an LED tube lamp of 120 cm long, feed with 450 mA (23 W), and the input voltage is 220 VRMS, 60 Hz. Simulation and experimental results of the proposed topology are presented.
keywords: {Two dimensional displays;converter;LED driver;LED tubular lamp;switched-capacitor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352240&isnumber=8352140

D. O. Neacşu and A. Sirbu, "A fast algorithm for software implementation of state-space control of DC-DC converters," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 575-580.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352241
Abstract: This paper demonstrates the use of state-space based control method as an enabler for Software-Intensive Control of dc/dc converters, with a worked example for a boost converter. The entire process flow is software controlled: design, optimization, and implementation. Despite having the theory of state-space control known for over 20 years, the power supply industry seemed to avoid its use due to complexity of mathematic apparatus and implementation. A novel algorithm is proposed within this paper to allow running the microcontroller code at higher frequency rates. The control software yields very simple and it is demonstrated to be implementable on any general use microcontroller, with generic software functions from C-language or assembly libraries. Snippets of software routines are provided for a Microchip platform to illustrate their simplicity. Execution time is compared with previous solutions to demonstrate this as possibly the fastest algorithm, at around 4 μsec or 250 kHz, for control including current estimation, run on a general use processor without dedicated digital hardware controller. Optimization of code and design are followed up with MATLAB and Microchip microcontroller example details.
keywords: {Software;Microcontrollers;Hardware;Matlab;Computers;Mathematical model;state-space method;intelligent control;embedded software;DC/DC power converters;software certification},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352241&isnumber=8352140

K. Cho, W. Oh, Y. Oh and C. In, "A new high resolution PWM dimming strategy for LED lightings," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 581-584.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352242
Abstract: This paper presents a new high resolution PWM dimming algorithm for LED lightings. The proposed algorithm is based on the average duty ratio control. High resolution dimming can be achieved by using the proposed algorithm without increasing the bit resolution of PWM. As a result, the proposed algorithm is useful for high frequency PWM applications such as LED lighting of photo/movie studios and machine vision systems.
keywords: {Pulse width modulation;Lighting;Light emitting diodes;Signal resolution;Clocks;Software algorithms;high resolution;PWM;dimming;LED lightings},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352242&isnumber=8352140

B. Pollet, F. Costa and G. Despesse, "A new inductorless DC-DC piezoelectric flyback converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 585-590.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352243
Abstract: This paper introduces a new kind of piezoelectric DC-DC converter. A ceramic is used as an energy storage element to replace the traditional inductance. Once resonating, the system describes a cycle at each resonance period taking energy to the source, storing it temporarily and transmitting it to the load with soft switching. A resonator suitable for the converter is presented and characterized with an electrical equivalent model. A simulation representing the whole system, gives very attracting results with very high efficiency for different output powers. The converter was tested and fully validated by experimental works. An efficiency of 85 percent was reached for a 10-20 volts step up converter with an output power of 500 milliwatts.
keywords: {DC/DC-conversion;piezoelectric materials;inductor-less converters;mechanical storage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352243&isnumber=8352140

O. Beik, A. Dekka and M. Narimani, "A new modular neutral point clamped converter with space vector modulation control," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 591-595.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352244
Abstract: This papers proposes a new 5-level modular neutral point clamped (MNPC) converter for medium voltage (MV) and high power applications. The proposed converter can operate at voltages up to 13.8kV using available commercial power semiconductor switches without series connection of the switches. The MNPC topology offers fewer numbers of components compared to the exiting five-level converters and simplicity in manufacturing as it can utilize off-the-shelf 3-level converter modules. In order to control the proposed 5-level converter, space vector modulation (SVM) technique is employed. Performance of the converter is evaluated at steady-state and transient conditions and for different modulation indices and loads by simulation studies. It is shown that using the SVM strategy the capacitor voltages are maintained around nominal values under both steady-state and transients.
keywords: {Capacitors;Switches;Topology;Modulation;Support vector machines;Voltage control;Steady-state;Modular multilevel converter;neutral point clamped converter (NPC);space vector PWM},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352244&isnumber=8352140
G. R. Broday and L. A. C. Lopes, "A novel 5-switch tapped-inductor multi-state bidirectional DC-DC converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 596-599.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352245
Abstract: DC distribution systems, common in transportation systems, are now being considered for residential and office buildings. Whatever the case, energy storage units with fast acting interfaces are of paramount importance for power balancing and power quality enhancement. The power electronics interfaces, usually centered on inductive elements, tend to present non-minimum phase characteristics and slow response. This issue can be mitigated with the use of multi-state switching techniques. The novel bidirectional DC-DC converter proposed in this paper is suitable for this technique and employs a tapped inductor in which the direction of the current does not have to change when the power flow through the converter is to be reversed, leading the system to a faster response.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Inductors;DC-DC power converters;Load flow;Switches;Voltage control;Bidirectional DC-DC converter;tapped inductor;multi-state operation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352245&isnumber=8352140

M. Rahnama, A. Vahedi, A. M. Alikhani, N. Takorabet and B. Fazelbakhsheshi, "A novel diode open circuit fault detection in three phase rectifier based on k-means method," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 600-605.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352246
Abstract: Precise and accurate fault detection in rectifier diode reduces the time and cost of maintenance and prevents the fault development and more severe faults occurrence. In spite of the importance of open circuit diodes, they are not normally protected in three-phase diode rectifiers for open circuit fault. This is very important in the rectifier of generator systems where voltage control is done based on the output voltage of the rectifier. In this paper, all modes of occurrence of diode open-circuit faults in three-phase rectifiers are categorized and simulated. By using fast Fourier transform analysis, an appropriate feature for fault detection is extracted and k-means algorithm is used to clustering the faults. In order to evaluate the proposed method, the results of the experimental test are classified according to simulation results. In all fault classes, the diagnosis was performed correctly.
keywords: {Fault detection;k-means;diode open;simulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352246&isnumber=8352140

B. Guan and S. Doki, "A robust neutral point potential control for single phase three level rectifier based on the multiple degree of freedom," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 606-611.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352247
Abstract: For single phase three level neutral point clamped (TL-NPC) rectifier, if the two DC-link capacitors are linked to two different loads respectively or a TL-NPC inverter, the neutral point potential (NPP) problem would be serious. It is rarely discussed at present, although some NPP control methods based on zero-sequence voltage injection have been raised, which does not deal with the asymmetrical loads in DC-side. Actually, if one phase voltage reaches to the maximum, the other one will go to the minimum. At this operation condition, the NPP control ability is limited, since there are few zero sequence voltage to choose. In this paper, a robust NPP control based on multiple degree of freedom (DOF) is proposed. Not only the zero sequence voltage, another two DOF are defined and utilized to control the NPP. As a result, the NPP control ability can be remarkably enhanced to deal with the NPP problem under some strong asymmetrical loads. The comparisons on the control domain of neutral point current for the traditional NPP control and proposed way are done firstly. Then, the simulation results are also given to verify the correctness and feasibility of proposed method.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Voltage control;Phase modulation;Robustness;Fluctuations;Capacitors;single phase three level rectifier;neutral point potential;asymmetrical loads;zero sequence voltage;multiple degree of freedom;control domains},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352247&isnumber=8352140

W. Oh, K. Cho, C. In and J. Kim, "A source transfer switch for the AC power source," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 612-616.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352248
Abstract: This paper presents an automatic AC source transfer switch for broadcasting and communication equipment. Since the proposed transfer switch has a short transfer time under 4[msec], system power reset is prevented when the main source has a trouble as like a black-out. Although the proposed source transfer switch adopts relay as a switching device, the transfer time is under 500t[μsec] when the main source is recovered, under voltage status, and overvoltage status. Moreover zero current switching is realized.
keywords: {Relays;Switches;Power supplies;Broadcasting;Reactive power;Voltage control;Switching circuits;STS;AC power source;power redundancy system;relay;zero current switching},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352248&isnumber=8352140

F. F. V. Matos, H. O. Ramos, C. E. Oliveira, V. F. Mendes, M. A. S. Mendes and T. Meynard, "A vector modulation strategy for open-end winding conversion systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 617-622.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352249
Abstract: With the increasing demand for industrial processes for power rating, quality and faster dynamics, multilevel converters and structures have been developed and became popular. Among them, the open-end winding topology is an advantageous structure for its lower device count and switching redundancy. This paper presents a vector modulation technique for one of these systems, which employs a pair of two-level converters, being equivalent to a traditional three-level system. The strategy uses the nearest space vectors to the reference in order ensure a good power quality on the output. Its main features are the balance of commutations among devices, its constant switching rate and the higher frequency current ripple. The characteristics of the fixed switching patterns to obtain the best quality on the output are presented along with simulation results that demonstrate the accomplishment of the strategy goals.
keywords: {Switches;Windings;Frequency modulation;Harmonic analysis;Simulation;High-voltage techniques;Open-End Winding;Modulation Techniques;Space Vector Modulation;Power Conversion},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352249&isnumber=8352140

D. Lena, I. Buraioli, A. Bocca, D. Demarchi and A. Macii, "An accurate electro-thermal model of SiC power mosfets for fast simulations," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 623-628.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352250
Abstract: A methodology for developing an electro-thermal model for silicon carbide (SiC) power transistors, is presented. The primary target of a such methodology is to address a detailed system level mixed signal multi-domain simulation, where simulation time and accuracy are the key factors. The adopted methodology aims to provide a compact model usable in a high-level behavioral description of any SiC-based power system. The modeling of an existing SiC MOSFET produced by STM is then described as an application. A preliminary simulation was carried out to compare the results to real device characteristics. A scenario of an inverter circuit based on SiC power transistors is also provided. Using the proposed macromodel, the final results show a reduction in simulation time of the inverter by a factor of 40 with respect to the original PSpice simulation time.
keywords: {Silicon carbide;Semiconductor device modeling;Mathematical model;Solid modeling;MOSFET;Numerical models;Integrated circuit modeling;SiC modeling;wide bandgap device;discrete power device;CAD methodologies;third quadrant characteristics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352250&isnumber=8352140

N. K. Reddi, M. R. Ramteke and H. M. Suryawanshi, "An isolated dual-input LCLC resonant converter for hybrid energy systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 629-633.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352251
Abstract: In this paper, dual input LCLC resonant soft switched converter for hybrid energy system is proposed. Converter consist of two controllable switches on primary side, high frequency transformer and full bridge rectifier. In this paper converter operation, design guide-lines and closed loop control scheme are discussed. Simulation results for different case studies are presented. The simulation results reveal that converter achieves zero voltage switching (ZVS) and constant output voltage under variable load as well as varying input voltage conditions.
keywords: {Voltage control;Resonant converters;Semiconductor diodes;Circuit faults;Zero voltage switching;Simulation;Switches},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352251&isnumber=8352140

T. P. Corrêa, L. Almeida and F. J. Rodriguez, "Communication aspects in the distributed control architecture of a modular multilevel converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 640-645.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352253
Abstract: Several authors researched on the use of digital communications in the control of Modular Multilevel Converters, but, in our opinion, three characteristics of this solution need more discussion: transmission media, synchronization accuracy, and network topology. In this paper, we also address the gap of modeling the communications with more details. For this, we propose a simple cosimulation strategy that relies on the fact that the control and power circuits have no real-time influence in the operation of the communication network. We present simulations with OMNeT++ and Matlab/Simulink to demonstrate the importance of a more detailed modeling of the system.
keywords: {Synchronization;Modular multilevel converters;Network topology;Harmonic analysis;Media;Topology;Optical switches;Cosimulation;digital communication;Modular Multilevel Converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352253&isnumber=8352140

G. P. Adam, R. Li, L. Xu and I. Abdelsalam, "Compact mixed cell modular multilevel converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 646-651.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352254
Abstract: This paper proposes a new hybrid converter as an alternative to alternate arm converter (AAC) and conventional mixed cell modular multilevel converter (MC-MMC). Although the proposed converter evolves from AAC, it resembles a version of the MC-MMC, where the entire low-voltage rated half-bridge (HB) cells in each arm are replaced by one high-voltage HB cell. Therefore, the proposed converter offers all the tributes of MC-MMC at footprint similar to that of AAC and reduced control complexity as the number of cell capacitor to be control is halved. The practical viability of the proposed converter is confirmed using simulations and experimentations.
keywords: {Switches;Reactive power;Modulation;Capacitors;Harmonic analysis;Modular multilevel converters;Voltage control;Alternate arm converter;mixed cell modular multilevel converter;high-voltage direct current transmission systems;resiliency to ac and dc faults},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352254&isnumber=8352140

E. Coulinge, J. Burnet, S. Pittet and D. Dujic, "Comparative study of two-quadrant DC/DC stage in power supply for superconducting magnets," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 652-657.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352255
Abstract: To improve the performances of the present European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) Large Hadron Collider (LHC), a new family of power supplies for Superconducting Magnets (SCM) is being designed to enhance the operating cycle and recover magnetic-stored energy. Those specific magnets require low-voltage high-current high-precision isolated power supplies. This paper compares different modes of operation for 4-quadrant full-bridge DC/DC converter and its reduced 2-quadrant variant, with emphasis placed on semiconductor losses and overall electrical performances. From the presented comparative study, it can be seen that 2-quadrant topology combined with synchronous rectification offers the most interesting characteristics for considered application.
keywords: {Superconducting magnets;Switches;MOSFET;Modulation;Topology;Logic gates;Power supplies},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352255&isnumber=8352140

N. Erroui, G. Gateau and N. Roux, "Continuous-caliber semiconductor components," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 658-663.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352256
Abstract: The needs in terms of power electronics has evolved and for high power applications, the increase of efficiency mainly goes through the increase of the voltage of the system. However, this is not possible with a conventional two-level topology because the semiconductor ranges are limited to 6.5 kV which approximatively corresponds to a blocking voltage of 3.6 kV. To overcome this semi-conductor limitation, multilevel topologies can be used and allow to extend the range of the DC bus input voltage while using smaller and more efficient components. Yet, the sizing of an optimal power converter with high efficiency and power density is hard to realize due to the discretization of semiconductor components calibers. Moreover, if we want to find the optimal value of the DC bus voltage for a specific application using an optimization algorithm, the use of continuous caliber for components will give better results. This paper aims to explain the used method to overcome this discretization by creating virtual components with exact suitable caliber, using the database parameters available from manufacturers. To do so, the used power converter losses and thermal models are recalled in order to specify the needed parameters. These parameters will be generated as to create the needed virtual component.
keywords: {Databases;Thermal resistance;Switches;Topology;Mathematical model;Computer architecture;Semiconductor;switching losses;conduction losses;thermal resistance;power converter;efficiency},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352256&isnumber=8352140

M. Hammami, M. Vujacic and G. Grandi, "Dc-link current and voltage ripple harmonics in three-phase three-level flying capacitor inverters with sinusoidal carrier-based PWM," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 664-669.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352257
Abstract: This paper concerns with the analysis and calculation of the low-frequency dc-link input current and voltage ripple harmonic components in three-phase three-level flying capacitor inverter topologies. As a first simplified approach, reference is made to sinusoidal carrier-based PWM, and sinusoidal load currents with unity power factor, well representing most of the grid-connected applications. The proposed method can be straight-forwardly extended to centered PWM with any output power factor angle. Based on the ripple requirements of dc-link voltage, an original simple and effective equation for designing the dc-link capacitor has been proposed, since design guidelines only for the flying capacitors are reported in literature. Numerical simulations have been carried out by Matlab/Simulnik in order to verify the proposed developments.
keywords: {Capacitors;Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Pulse width modulation;Power harmonic filters;Legged locomotion;multilevel inverter;flying capacitor inverter;dc-link capacitor design;harmonic analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352257&isnumber=8352140

T. Lamorelle, A. Andreta, Y. Lembeye, J. -. Crébier and J. Podvin, "Design level power electronics building block: Industrial framework for DC-DC conversion," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 670-675.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352258
Abstract: This paper presents the design of DC-DC converters based on the Power Electronics Building Blocks (PEBB) concept at design level. These converters are created by the association of power electronics blocks in series/parallel and auxiliary functional blocks as control and communication. The article presents the way the blocks are defined and optimized. Several power converters can be designed by assembling these blocks as LEGO™. On1e of the possible converters is presented and its performances are shown. The power converter datasheet is specified as example of this design process concept.
keywords: {Electromagnetic interference;Standards;Topology;Process control;Manufacturing;Power conversion;DC-DC conversion;Power electronics building block;high power density;characterization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352258&isnumber=8352140

T. Martire, J. Laurentie, M. Jebli, L. Boyer and M. Petit, "Design of a 4-phase intercell transformer converter for a space charge measuring system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 676-681.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352259
Abstract: This paper presents the design of a power electronics converter to produce strong current pulses (about 400A) in the core of a HVDC cable in order to use the thermal step method to evaluate the ageing state of the dielectric component. The described converter uses a magnetic coupler with intercells transformers and is current controlled.
keywords: {Couplers;Magnetic cores;Magnetic separation;Power cables;Circuit faults;Insulators;Inductance;magnetic coupler;intercell transformer;high current pulses;thermal step method;dielectrics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352259&isnumber=8352140

N. Baazoug, M. W. Naouar and E. Monmasson, "Design of an adaptive feed-forward control scheme for the DC bus voltage control of single phase grid connected converters," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 682-687.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352260
Abstract: This paper presents a robust control strategy for DC bus voltage control of single-phase Grid connected Converters (GcCs). This control strategy is based on a PI controller with a feed-forward of the DC load (or source) current estimated through an adaptive gain matrix based Luenberger observer. The aim of the proposed control strategy is to ensure simultaneously the following control objectives: 1) an accurate DC bus voltage control, 2) a reduced level of DC bus voltage fluctuations during transient conditions caused by sudden and sever changes of the transferred active power and 3) a reduced grid current harmonics during steady state operation. The validity and effectiveness of the designed DC bus voltage controller was evaluated and confirmed through experimental tests.
keywords: {Voltage control;Mathematical model;Observers;Harmonic analysis;Current control;Voltage fluctuations;Fluctuations;Dc bus voltage control;adaptative observer;Single phase Grid connected Converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352260&isnumber=8352140

K. R. Feistel and L. A. C. Lopes, "Design procedure for the LPF of a three-phase SPWM VSC operating with a wide range of output power, voltage and frequency with low harmonic distortion," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 688-693.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352261
Abstract: This paper proposes a design procedure for a Low Pass Filter (LPF) of a three-phase Voltage Source Converter (VSC) applied as a Power Amplifier (PA) intended for the emulation of a rotating AC machine. It operates with a wide range of output voltage, varying from 22 V to 220 V; frequency from 0 Hz to 1 kHz and is capable to maintain the output voltage with low value of Total Harmonic Distortion (THD). A design procedure is presented and discussed and its performance in steady state condition is verified by means of simulation with MATLAB software.
keywords: {Harmonic analysis;Gain;Power harmonic filters;Attenuation;Frequency modulation;Power generation;Low pass filters;Voltage Source Converter;Low Pass Filter;wide range;low harmonic distortion},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352261&isnumber=8352140

R. Caillaud et al., "Design, manufacturing and characterization of printed circuit board embedded inductors for power applications," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 694-699.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352262
Abstract: The Printed-Circuit-Board (PCB) technology is attractive for power electronic systems as it offers a low manufacturing cost for mass production. Power inductors are large and complex to manufacture, because they usually are custom components which must be wound individually. Inductors based on PCB technology can reduce the complexity and cost while using a wasted space (the thickness of said PCB). In this paper, a procedure to design such inductors is summarized, with a focus on inductors intended to be implemented in converters in the 100–1000 W range. The main contribution of this paper is the description of the manufacturing process : the inductors use PCB to host their magnetic core while their winding is made by patterning the PCB copper layers and using copper vias. In addition, new experimental results are presented : the prototypes are electrically characterized, and the results are discussed to present the advantages and drawbacks of this technology, as well as the remaining open questions.
keywords: {Magnetic cores;Inductors;Windings;Copper;Cavity resonators;Air gaps;Inductance},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352262&isnumber=8352140

T. Ariyarathna, N. Kularatna and D. A. Steyn-Ross, "Developing a high current 48V DC power supply: Design approaches based on SCALDO," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 700-705.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352263
Abstract: According to data published by Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), USA, energy consumption of cloud computing centres keep growing at 10% per annum, to reach over 200 billion kWh by year 2020. If the efficiency of a server power supply could be enhanced by even 1 %, an astronomical amount of energy could be saved every year. Supercapacitor assisted low drop-out regulator (SCALDO), is a high efficiency linear DC-DC converter technique suitable for high current DC-supplies. SCALDO can be extended to any load current, has DC-UPS capability, and does not require RFI/EMI filtering. Given the advantages of a linear DC-DC converter based on SCALDO, this paper presents the design approaches used in developing an off-the-line DC power supply of 48 V DC output. In order to maintain the necessary electrical isolation, and to use the advantages of the connected load seeing the high quality low-noise output of a linear regulator, a supercapacitor is used in series with a transformer which can toggle between fly-back to forward mode in transferring energy. Early result indicating the potential of this new extended-SCALDO technique is presented in the paper.
keywords: {Power supplies;Supercapacitors;Energy consumption;Regulators;Switches;Windings;DC-UPS;48 V DC rails;linear regulators;SCALDO;supercapacitors;efficiency},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352263&isnumber=8352140

Z. Belkaid, P. Enrici, F. Forest, T. Martiré and J. Huselstein, "Development of models and tool for the design of HF magnetic components in power electronics," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 706-711.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352264
Abstract: The magnetic components represent an important part of the power electronic converters in terms of volume and cost, particularly in switching power supplies. Therefore, it is essential to develop methods and software tools to optimize the magnetic device design in relation with the conversion parameters. To built a design process of magnetic components, it is necessary to identify the constraints induced by the specifications, to choose the electrical conductors and the magnetic cores, both in terms of materials and geometries, to calculate accurately the losses in these two parts and, finally to introduce thermal models in order to determine the temperature reached in the different parts. Indeed, the respect of correct operating temperatures must be the main constraint of any design process, particularly in power systems. In this paper, a generic design tool based on the approach mentioned above and mainly dedicated to high frequency power transformers is presented. For a large part, this tool uses analytical models, and in addition, some steps of the process are realized by mean of Finite Element simulations. Different experimental measurements have been made to verify the model validity, especially concerning thermal features magnetic and complete the content of the paper.
keywords: {Windings;Solid modeling;Three-dimensional displays;Thermal resistance;Magnetic cores;Analytical models;Magnetic components;high Frequency transformer;effect of the eddy currents;winding losses;optimization;thermal model},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352264&isnumber=8352140

K. Gunawardane, K. Subasinghage and N. Kularatna, "Efficiency enhanced linear DC-DC converter topology with integrated DC-UPS capability," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 712-717.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352265
Abstract: Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems are used to buffer against input energy source disconnections. In most UPS systems associated with an AC input energy source, an AC-DC converter feeds an energy storage system such as a battery bank or a supercapacitor bank together with a DC to AC conversion systems to buffer against AC input supply failures. If the critical load is fed by a DC source, DC-UPS designs are introduced with high efficiency, less complexity, low cost and smaller size. Supercapacitor assisted low dropout (SCALDO) regulator is a novel DC-DC converter developed to achieve high efficiency in a linear regulator approach using a supercapacitor as a series dropper element in the series path of a linear regulator such as a LDO. The DC-UPS capability is a novel feature which can be integrated into the SCALDO regulator simply by oversizing the supercapacitor without using any additional hardware. This paper describes the conceptual background followed by experimental results of the DC UPS capability integrated SCALDO regulator using 12-5 V prototype.
keywords: {Regulators;Uninterruptible power systems;Prototypes;DC-DC power converters;Supercapacitors;Topology;DC-DC converters;Supercapacitors;Efficiency;DC-UPS;Linear regulators},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352265&isnumber=8352140

N. Hildebrandt, M. Petković and D. Dujić, "Evaluation of 1.7 kV SiC MOSFETs for a regenerative cascaded H-bridge multilevel converter cell," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 718-723.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352266
Abstract: High fidelity AC grid emulators allow early testing and qualification of various equipment under conditions close to those expected in reality. Realizing this at medium voltage high power level is associated with certain challenges, some of which are discussed in this paper. Medium voltage grid emulator based on the well-known four-quadrant Robicon topology is considered as platform for realization of the AC grid emulator. To achieve high resolution AC waveform with sufficiently high control bandwidth, SiC based cell design is compared with pure Si and Hybrid (Si+SiC) designs. Using SiC devices for the output H-bridge stage allows significantly higher switching frequencies, improving achievable control bandwidth and improving fidelity of emulator output voltage.
keywords: {Silicon carbide;Switches;Silicon;Switching frequency;Insulated gate bipolar transistors;Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Grid Emulator;CHB;SiC},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352266&isnumber=8352140

A. Carreno, M. A. Perez and J. Espinoza, "Frequency control of MMC-HVDC based on active and reactive power decoupling," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 724-729.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352267
Abstract: High voltage DC systems based on modular multi-level converters have been received increased attention due to the high power quality they provide. When the rated power of the HVDC station is similar to the generating units, the converter station can have an important role in the frequency regulation. The method proposed in this paper uses the relation between the active and reactive power to estimate the load changes adding a feed-forward compensation term for the active power reference thus reducing the dynamical frequency deviation. This method in combination with a frequency PI controller, delivers active power to compensate load changes and keeps the frequency at its reference with a very small deviation.
keywords: {Frequency control;Reactive power;Voltage control;Frequency measurement;HVDC transmission;Synchronous generators},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352267&isnumber=8352140

M. Semard, C. Martin, C. Buttay and C. Joubert, "High-temperature coplanar transformer," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 730-735.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352268
Abstract: Power electronics tends to go higher in frequency and higher in power density. This requires integrated transformers which are able to withstand high temperature (over 200°C). This paper addresses the manufacturing and test of low power transformers used for the isolation in gate circuits power supplies. The transformers are built from a magnetic substrate (ferrite) using a microfabrication process detailed in the paper. The presented transformers are intended for power below 1 W, voltage circa 10 V, switching frequency of 1 MHz, temperature ranging from -55°C to 200°C and an isolation capacitance below 10 pF.
keywords: {Power transformer insulation;Substrates;Windings;Copper;Capacitance;Pulse transformers;Transformer;microfabrication;thick film inductors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352268&isnumber=8352140

J. Hu et al., "Highly reliable operation control for MMC-UPFC under unbalanced power grid conditions," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 736-741.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352269
Abstract: The grid contains many negative sequence components under unbalanced conditions, which affect the safe operation of MMC-UPFC. To achieve highly reliable operation control for MMC-UPFC under unbalanced conditions, this paper proposes a decoupling control strategy that introduces the separation of positive and negative sequences. First, the working principles and mathematical model of MMC-UPFC are analyzed. Second, the instantaneous symmetric component method is introduced to separate the positive and negative sequence components of the grid. After that step, dq decoupling control strategies under positive and negative sequences are designed for the shunt side and series side, respectively, which can realize negative sequence compensation and highly reliable operation of MMC-UPFC. Simulation results are presented to verify the effectiveness and feasibility of the proposed control strategy.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Load flow;Power grids;Topology;Power transmission lines;Voltage control;Power system stability;MMC-UPFC;unbalanced condition;negative sequence compensation;decoupling control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352269&isnumber=8352140

S. Léo, F. Jean-Paul, F. David, J. Pierre-Olivier, P. Pierre and L. Othman, "Implementation of monolithic bidirectional switches in a AC/DC Dual Active Bridge in ZVS auto-switching mode," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 742-746.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352270
Abstract: This paper presents the implementation of single gate bidirectional switches. In order to take fully into account the characteristics of these components, a quasi-resonant Dual Active Bridge topology has been chosen. The switches will be implemented at the primary stage to allow a direct AC/DC conversion. The quasi-resonant mode is introduced to operate in full ZVS mode at the primary bridge level. This mode involves automatic turn ON. A theoretical study validates the quasi-resonant full-ZVS automatic switching in AC/DC conversion. The driver circuit, used to guarantee ZVS automatic switching on each bidirectional switch, is then described. Finally, experimental results show the feasibility of the converter.
keywords: {Switches;Zero voltage switching;Bridge circuits;Delays;Logic gates;Bidirectional switch;GaN;automatic switching;resonant converter;Dual-Active-Bridge;Zero-Voltage-Switching},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352270&isnumber=8352140

I. B. Mahamat et al., "Magnetic field radiated by integrated inductors and magnetic shielding," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 747-752.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352271
Abstract: This article presents a study on electromagnetic radiation generated by integrated inductors fabricated with and without magnetic material. The study is performed in simulation using HFSS software. A quantification of radiated fields of integrated inductors with one and two magnetic layers, as well as the study of the influence of the thickness of the magnetic material is carried out. The results show that the report of a second layer above the spiral, shields considerably the field radiated by the component while highly increasing the inductance value.
keywords: {Inductors;Magnetic materials;Magnetic cores;Spirals;Magnetic shielding;Magnetic noise;Magnetic fields;Inductor;magnetic material;radiation;shielding},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352271&isnumber=8352140

E. Fernández, V. Sala, A. Paredes and L. Romeral, "Method to reduce THD and improve efficiency in SiC power converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 753-758.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352272
Abstract: This paper presents a method to reduce total harmonic distortion (THD) and improve efficiency of a topology of power converter using SiC devices. The method consists of two parts: the first part finds the optimum offset angle between two carrier signals that are sent to the first stage of the V-I converter and PWM modulation for the current source inverter (CSI), to reduce the total harmonic distortion in the output currents. The V-I converter transforms the voltage source of the battery into a current source for the inverter. The V-I converter operates at 30 kHz and the CSI at 55 kHz switching. The second part consists of using SiC devices to increase the operating range in frequency, and reduce the power losses in the devices, which will improve the efficiency of the analyzed topology. Besides, a comparative study between the SiC topology and a topology with conventional Si devices was proposed, the results of simulations analyzed the power losses and THD and compared with the purpose of validating the method proposal.
keywords: {Silicon carbide;Topology;Silicon;MOSFET;Pulse width modulation;Batteries;Switches;SiC;CSI;FOC Control;Surface Mounted Permanent Magnet Synchronous},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352272&isnumber=8352140

A. Dekka and M. Narimani, "Model predictive control of a five-level nested neutral point clamped converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 759-763.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352273
Abstract: The model predictive control (MPC) is one of the promising approaches to control the multilevel converters. The main features of MPC are fast dynamic response and easy to achieve multiple control objectives with a single cost function. This paper presents a new five-level nested neutral point clamped (5L-NNPC) converter for medium-voltage, high-power applications. For reliable operation, the flying capacitor voltages of 5L-NNPC topology needs to be regulated at one-fourth of the dc-link voltage along with the output current control. To achieve these objectives, an MPC approach is proposed in this paper. To implement the MPC scheme, a discrete-time model of 5L-NNPC topology is developed. The control objectives of 5L-NNPC are included in a cost function and evaluated for all possible switching states. The switching state which minimizes the cost function is selected and applied to the converter. The steady-state and transient performance of 5L-NNPC with MPC scheme are validated through MATLAB simulations.
keywords: {Capacitors;Mathematical model;Voltage control;Switches;Topology;Cost function;Voltage measurement;Capacitor voltage control;nested neutral point clamped (NNPC) converter;mode predictive current control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352273&isnumber=8352140

S. Mansouri, S. Tnani and O. Bachelier, "Modelling and control of a new hybrid compensator for grid power fluctuations," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 764-769.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352274
Abstract: Renewable energies are increasingly used in the alternative supply of the future. Based on this, different energy source are interconnected in order to provide the sufficient energy to the electrical grid. However, meteorological conditions may affect the produced energy from photovoltaic panels and wind turbine generators. As a consequence, it may also trouble the quality of the exchanged power. This paper proposes a new storage system (hybrid four-level inverter) to solve the problem caused by the brutal impact of active and reactive powers. The main idea of the proposed hybrid structure is to compensate active and reactive power fluctuations through the intermediate stored energy into supercapacitors. To regulate the current injected or absorbed by the inverter, the control strategy is expressed by means of Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMI) technique. In addition, Space Vector Modulation (SVM) technique is applied for this hybrid structure to produce pulses for the different switches. Simulation results are presented to verify the advantages of the developed system in smoothing fast power variation.
keywords: {Inverters;Supercapacitors;Support vector machines;Reactive power;Wind turbines;Legged locomotion;hybrid multilevel inverter;super-capacitor;energy storage;power fluctuation;SVM technique},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352274&isnumber=8352140

V. K. Bussa, R. K. Singh and R. Mahanty, "Modified L-Z-source inverter with high gain inversion and inductive load compatibility," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 770-775.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352275
Abstract: This paper proposes a modified L-Z-source inverter (L-ZSI), which is derived from L-ZSI with addition of few more elements to overcome the limitations of L-ZSI. The modified L-ZSI gives higher boosting capability at low shoot-through duty ratio and improved AC output voltage at reduced harmonic distortions unlike conventional L-ZSI. Due to its higher boosting capability at low duty ratio, it is appropriate to connect low input voltage sources to grid or standalone systems at reduced harmonic distortions. Detailed mathematical modelling is carried out and a scaled down laboratory prototype is developed to verify the performance of the proposed inverter.
keywords: {Inverters;Switches;Capacitors;Loading;Stress;Pulse width modulation;Harmonic distortion;Boost factor;high gain inversion;L-Z-source inverter;shoot-through duty},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352275&isnumber=8352140

E. Ozsoy, S. Padmanaban, F. Ahmad, L. Mihet-Popa and İ. Colak, "Modified SEPIC boost converter with constant switching frequency modulation using sliding mode controller," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 776-781.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352276
Abstract: This paper presents a sliding mode control (SMC) approach to a novel high output gain SEPIC converter. Power circuit of the conventional SEPIC converter is modified with an inclusion of single inductor and capacitor which improves the efficiency and output gain. Conventional PI type controllers are very common solutions for DC-DC converters. However, it is a difficult task to optimize a single PI controller gain in different loads and disturbances. Proposed SMC based equivalent controller implemented on the modified SEPIC converter overcomes these aforementioned drawbacks. A dynamic hysteresis constant switching frequency method is attempted to operate in the appropriate switching frequency interval. The proposed circuit and controller structure are validated in Matlab/Simulink under different perturbations.
keywords: {PI control;Switching frequency;Simulation;Perturbation methods;Capacitors;Robustness;Inductors;DC-DC converter;SEPIC converter;sliding mode control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352276&isnumber=8352140

J. Le Leslé et al., "Optimum design of a single-phase Power Pulsating Buffer (PPB) with PCB-integrated inductor technologies," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 782-787.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352277
Abstract: This paper presents the design procedure for a Buck Power Pulsating Buffer, aimed at optimising the power density of a single phase AC/DC converter. It compares different technologies for the buffer capacitor and for the inductor with printed-circuit board (PCB) integration in mind. As ceramic capacitors are considered (X6S and Ceralink technologies), a non-linear model was developed for the capacitance and ESR variations. This differs from existing literature because film capacitors are usually used and simple models are appropriate for such technologies. Two low-cost, highly integrated inductor technologies are compared. Results allow a fair comparison of these different capacitor and inductor technologies, and it found that the design based on X6S capacitors and planar inductors offers the smaller volume and best efficiency. Moreover, the optimisation procedure favours an original approach, where the converter operates at zero voltage switching (ZVS) along the entire mains period at fixed switching frequency.
keywords: {Capacitors;Inductors;Topology;Density measurement;Power system measurements;Zero voltage switching;Ceramics;Optimisation procedure;pareto front;Power Pulsating Buffer;Electronic capacitor;ZVS;wide band-gap devices},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352277&isnumber=8352140

M. T. Faiz, M. M. Khan, X. Jianming, S. Habib and H. Tang, "Parallel feedforward compensation based active damping of LCL-type grid connected inverter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 788-793.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352278
Abstract: In this paper, an active damping for LCL-type single phase grid connected inverter is proposed. The suggested methodology is based on Parallel Feedforward Compensation (PFC) technique that allows to add a compensator parallel with filter system. A capacitor voltage is feedback through a Bandpass section (BPS) to form a damping loop. Theoretical background of PFC, design of a bandpass section as a compensator and stability of proposed method has been analyzed. The main advantage of proposed method is simplicity and straightforward design procedure. The control performance is compared with active damping technique by a capacitor voltage feedback through lead-lag network. The Proportional Resonant (PR) controller is used for grid current regulation. Finally, the effectiveness of proposed method is examined in MATLAB environment and verified by simulation results.
keywords: {Damping;Resonant frequency;Band-pass filters;Inverters;Capacitors;Lead;Gain},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352278&isnumber=8352140

A. Paredes, V. Sala, E. Fernandez and L. Romeral, "Performance analysis of switching devices for wireless EV charging systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 794-799.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352279
Abstract: This paper presents a performance analysis of the power inverter and switching devices for wireless charging systems (WCS) applied in Electric Vehicles (EV). The purpose of this analysis was to determinate the switching devices impact and effects on the WCS efficiency under EV chargers conditions. Besides, to show a perspective on the trend and use of new power semiconductor technologies and the way for choosing the adequate devices. The study was developed through the power and total losses evaluation on the devices, considering the EV chargers requirements such as power levels and operation frequency. The analysis showed that not only the power transmission stage is so important in the WCS design for achieving high-performance chargers but else the electronic components of the power inverter. In addition, the investigation showed that the use of new technologies is necessary for the new WCS requirements, as well as additional considerations in the design of WCS with the proposed standards.
keywords: {Zirconium;electric vehicles;power inverters;power losses;switching devices;wireless charging},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352279&isnumber=8352140

L. M. Kunzler and L. A. C. Lopes, "Power balance technique for cascaded H-bridge multilevel cells in a hybrid power amplifier with wide output voltage range," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 800-805.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352280
Abstract: This paper discusses and extends the principle of a switching technique, called First-In First-Out (FIFO) and proposes a novel switching technique called Split Voltage First-In First-Out (SV-FIFO) for a wide output voltage variation, especially for lower output voltages. Both techniques enhance the power balance among the cells of a single-pulse/staircase Cascaded H-Bridge Multilevel Converter (CHBM) applied to a Hybrid Power Amplifier (HPA). These techniques are compared with the conventional First-In Last-Out (FILO) switching method for rated and lower output voltages. Mathematical equations are derived for a quantitative comparison of both methods, with the statistical analyses for various operating conditions.
keywords: {Switches;Power amplifiers;Power distribution;Hybrid power systems;Rectifiers;Simulation;Mathematical model;Power Balance;Switching Technique;Hybrid Power Amplifier;Multilevel Converters;Cascaded H-Bridges},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352280&isnumber=8352140

A. Bechouche, H. Seddiki, D. O. Abdeslam, A. Rahoui, Y. Triki and P. Wira, "Predictive direct power control with virtual-flux estimation of three-phase PWM rectifiers under nonideal grid voltages," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 806-811.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352281
Abstract: In this paper, a robust virtual-flux (VF) based predictive direct power control (PDPC) (VF-PDPC) of a three-phase pulse-width modulation (PWM) rectifier is introduced. A simple neural filter based integrator (NF-I) is used for VF estimation. The NF-I leads to remove harmonic distortions and dc offset in the estimated VF components. The estimated VF components are used for robust sensorless VF-PDPC with a constant switching frequency. Numerical simulations are carried out for testing the proposal. Simulation results proved superiority of the proposed sensorless VF-PDPC compared with the conventional PDPC and PDPC based on the extended pq theory under unbalanced and distorted grid conditions. Better stability and quasi-sinusoidal grid currents have been achieved with the developed method under nonideal grid conditions.
keywords: {Rectifiers;Pulse width modulation;Estimation;Power harmonic filters;Reactive power;Filtering theory;Voltage control;Extended pq theory;neural filter;PWM rectifier;predictive direct power control;sensorless;virtual-flux},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352281&isnumber=8352140

A. B. Vandaei, S. Filizadeh, K. Mudunkotuwa and E. Tara, "Real-time implementation of an enhanced dynamic phasor-based three-phase phase-locked loop for line-commutated converters," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 812-817.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352282
Abstract: This paper introduces a new phase-locked loop (PLL) based upon the concept of extended-frequency dynamic phasors for interfacing a line-commutated converter to a three-phase grid. The proposed PLL is capable of extracting the amplitude and phase angle of the fundamental voltage component under various grid disturbances such as system imbalances. It offers a high level of accuracy in comparison with conventional PLLs in the presence of system harmonics. Results are presented for a 6-pulse bridge rectifier energizing a DC link to assess the accuracy and validity of the proposed model. A real-time implementation of the proposed PLL is investigated as well. Simulation and real-time experimentation results show an improved performance of the whole system during ac system transients.
keywords: {Phase locked loops;Transient analysis;Harmonic analysis;Power system harmonics;Power system dynamics;Voltage control;Phase-Locked Loop (PLL);Dynamic Phasor (DP);Line-Commutated Converter (LCC)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352282&isnumber=8352140

J. Liu et al., "Research on a novel hybrid transformer for smart distribution network," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 818-823.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352283
Abstract: This paper deals with a novel hybrid power electronic transformer(HPET). Different kinds of topologies of HPET are discussed and compared. The modelling and operating principle of HPET is expounded in detail. A novel detection method based on all pass filter(APF) is proposed to detect the voltage sag. A design example is presented for a 10kV/380V, 200kVA HPET. Simulation and experiment results are discussed to verify the topology and control algorithm presented in this paper.
keywords: {Power transformers;Voltage control;Topology;Power quality;Reactive power;Power electronics;Windings;hybrid power electronic transformer;reactive compensation;voltage regulation;power quality control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352283&isnumber=8352140

L. F. S. Alves, P. Lefranc, P. -O. Jeannin and B. Sarrazin, "Review on SiC-MOSFET devices and associated gate drivers," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 824-829.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352284
Abstract: Silicon (Si) power devices have dominated the world of Power Electronics in the last years, and they have proven to be efficient in a wide range of applications. But high power, high frequency and high temperature applications require more than Si can deliver. Wide Band-Gap (WBG) materials such as Silicon Carbide (SiC) and Gallium Nitride (GaN) were intensively researched and developed for power applications due to the substantial advantages their inherent material properties could realize at device level. The SiC-MOSFET has unique capabilities that make it a superior switch when compared to its silicon counterparts. By nature of its material advantages, SiC MOSFETs provide lower switching loss, lower ON-resistance across its operating temperature range, and superior thermal properties. However the characteristics of SiC devices require consideration of the gate-driver circuit to optimize the switching performance. SiC-MOSFETs, due to their ultra fast switching speed, are susceptible to have harsh transients introduced by rapid change in the drain-to-source voltage. Therefore, the gate drive requirements of SiC-MOSFETs require a thorough analysis in order to prevent high dv/dt transients from causing erratic switching behavior or unnecessary switching loss. This paper provides a general review on the properties of SiC comparing some performances between Si-MOSFETs and SiC-MOSFETs for typical power electronics applications. The main constraints and issues of the SiC-MOSFET switching process are presented, and some recent proposed Gate Drivers to solve these constraints are presented throughout this work.
keywords: {Logic gates;Silicon carbide;Silicon;Switches;Gate drivers;Threshold voltage;Capacitance},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352284&isnumber=8352140

Q. Molin, M. Kanoun, C. Raynaud and H. Morel, "Robustness study of 1700 V 45 mΩ SiC MOSFETs," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 830-834.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352285
Abstract: The threshold voltage instability is a main reliability issue of Silicon Carbide MOSFET transistors. It is a critical parameter when it comes to give a failure in time rate for industrial power applications. In this context, a static ageing test based on JEDEC standard is proposed and the resulting gate oxide degradation is studied and discussed in this paper. Complementary testing was performed with dynamic reliability on the gate and the results obtained are used to add insight to the current discussion of SiC MOSFET reliability standards. Additionally, test bench and characterization protocols are detailed.
keywords: {Aging;Temperature measurement;Logic gates;MOSFET;Threshold voltage;Silicon carbide;Reliability;Silicon Carbide MOSFET;threshold voltage instability;gate bias stress;robustness;Keysight B1506A;JEDEC;reliability testing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352285&isnumber=8352140

S. Busquets-Monge, A. Filbà-Martínez, J. Nicolás-Apruzzese and J. Bordonau, "Self-powered bipolar gate-driver power supply circuit for neutral-point-clamped converters," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 835-840.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352286
Abstract: The design of gate-driver power supply (GDPS) circuits for multilevel neutral-point-clamped converters is a challenge due to the large number of power switches required and the fact that each device presents a different GDPS reference node. This paper presents a compact self-powered bipolar GDPS circuit, consisting of two subcircuits connected across the power switches, which altogether produce all the positive and negative supply voltages required by the GDs. As these subcircuits essentially contain semiconductor components, they can be integrated with the power switch and gate driver, to produce a compact cell from which obtain a compact converter leg implementation. Overall, this BGDPS design is suitable for all types of NPC multilevel topologies with any type of power transistor, although it is most suitable for moderate device voltage ratings. The good performance of the proposed BGDPS circuit has been confirmed through experiments on a conventional two-level leg, and on three-level and four-level active-clamped converter legs.
keywords: {Economic indicators;Legged locomotion;Power supplies;Topology;Gate drivers;Switches;Logic gates;gate-driver power supply;multilevel;neutral point clamped;self-powered},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352286&isnumber=8352140

J. F. Mogniotte, C. Raynaud, M. Lazar, B. Allard and D. Planson, "SiC lateral Schottky diode technology for integrated smart power converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 841-846.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352287
Abstract: Ampere laboratory develops a technology of lateral power integrated circuit in Silicon Carbide (SiC). The purpose is to establish integrated power converter with its driver, which can operate in harsh environment. The technology is namely consisted by lateral MESFETs and lateral diodes. This paper presents two types of manufactured diodes: rectifier Schottky diode and power Schottky diode.
keywords: {Schottky diodes;Rectifiers;Silicon carbide;Junctions;Feature extraction;Leakage currents;Current measurement;SiC;Schottky diode;electrical characteristics;power converter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352287&isnumber=8352140

A. Paredes, E. Fernandez, V. Sala, H. Ghorbani and L. Romeral, "Switching trajectory improvement of SiC MOSFET devices using a feedback gate driver," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 847-852.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352288
Abstract: In this paper, a feedback active gate driver (AGD) based on a multistage technique for improving the switching trajectory of silicon carbide (SiC) MOSFET devices is presented. The main purpose of this technique is to reduce the oscillations and overshoot in high-frequency with low switching losses. Besides, the gate driver is designed considering the current load variations with simple circuit structure. An AGD validation has been developed by using simulations. The results have shown the behaviour of the AGD and feasibility. Therefore, the AGD can reduce the oscillations to avoid electromagnetic interference (EMI) and also decrease the overshoots caused by high di/dt current and dv/dt voltage slopes. In addition, the tests showed that the proposed AGD can be developed with low switching losses in high-frequency applications and medium power.
keywords: {Feedback gate driver;Oscillations;Power Losses;Silicon carbide MOSFET},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352288&isnumber=8352140

A. Chazottes-Leconte et al., "The effect of an electromagnetic peening process on mumetal properties," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 859-863.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352290
Abstract: Peening processes are widely used in the industries to enhance the performance of the most solicited parts of mechanical pieces. Actual processes, like shot peening and low plasticity burnishing, are quite limited to a small depth of treatment circa 1 mm at maximum. A new process is developed based on pulsed electromagnetic fields. This method allows a better depth of treatment up to 5 mm and it can be easily monitored. A prototype was developed using a pulse current generator and specifically designed inductor. This prototype was used on mumetal for the preliminary tests. Indeed, its maximal permeability and coercivity are highly impacted by the presence of stresses. Using specifics sensors, some changes occur after treatment on mumetal samples and can be observed.
keywords: {Inductors;Sensors;Capacitors;Residual stresses;Electromagnetics;Generators;Needles;Electromagnetic Peening processes;Peening process;Pulse current generator;Needles sensor;H-Coil;Magnetic properties;Magntic materials;Mumetal properties},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352290&isnumber=8352140

"TT renewable energy systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 864-866.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352291
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352291&isnumber=8352140

Z. Zhou, T. Zhao, Y. Zhang and Y. Su, "A data-driven approach to forecasting the distribution of distributed photovoltaic systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 867-872.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352292
Abstract: In recent years, the global photovoltaic (PV) industry has expended rapidly. The large-scale development of distributed PV systems will inevitably have an impact on traditional distribution network. Based on the collection of multiple data, this paper proposes a data-driven approach to forecasting the distribution of distributed PV systems, which is instructive for distribution network planning and energy policy making. The proposed approach firstly investigates the PV adoption drivers based on the quantitative analysis of historical PV data, then simulates the spatio-temporal diffusion of distributed PV systems using the cellular automation model which can also be used to forecast the development and distribution of installed distributed PV capacity on the basis of multi-source datasets. The proposed forecasting approach is finally applied to analyze the distributed PV systems in Pudong district of Shanghai, China. The forecasting results verify the effectiveness of the approach.
keywords: {Forecasting;Capacity planning;Distributed databases;Buildings;Automation;Predictive models;Planning;multi-source dataset;data mining;distributed PV system;spatio-temporal diffusion;cellular automation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352292&isnumber=8352140

R. H. L. Rodriguez, I. Vechiu, S. Jupin, S. Bacha, Q. Tabart and E. Pouresmaeil, "A new energy management strategy for a grid connected wind turbine-battery storage power plant," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 873-879.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352293
Abstract: This paper presents an innovative energy management strategy for the power dispatch of an island grid-connected hybrid plant combining a battery energy storage system (BESS) and a wind energy conversion system (WECS). The power plant must inject power into the grid in a continuous manner according to a penalty system related to a commitment band for the injection. Aiming at the revenues maximization, an energy management system (EMS) is proposed to efficiently handle the charge/discharge cycles of the battery system as well as its state-of-charge (SoC) so that the generation engagements can be met while considering the battery lifespan. The strategy, based on model predictive control (MPC) and quadratic programming (QP), is tested through simulation with real wind farm data using Matlab Simulink.
keywords: {Batteries;Energy management;Hybrid power systems;Wind forecasting;Predictive control;Wind turbines;Battery energy storage systems;energy management system;model predictive control;quadratic programming;renewable energies;wind turbines},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352293&isnumber=8352140

Y. Triki, A. Bechouche, H. Seddiki, D. O. Abdeslam and P. Wira, "ADALINE based maximum power point tracking methods for stand-alone PV systems control," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 880-885.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352294
Abstract: This paper presents two novel methods for maximum power point (MPP) tracking of a stand-alone PV system. The proposed techniques are based on adaptive linear neuron strategy. Their performances are evaluated through simulation tests, considering different irradiance profiles according to the Standard EN 50530 Test recommendations. The system, including boost converter, is capable to tracking MPPs accurately and quickly without power loss. Proposed methods are compared with the conventional P&O algorithm under different operation conditions. Obtained results proven that the proposed methods are better than the P&O algorithm which fails under rapid irradiance change.
keywords: {Maximum power point trackers;Control systems;Integrated circuit modeling;Classification algorithms;Resistance;Neurons;Training;Adaptive linear neuron;boost converter;maximum power point tracking;perturbe & observe algorithm;photovoltaic},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352294&isnumber=8352140

E. A. Azrulhisham and M. A. Azri, "Application of LISST instrument for suspended sediment and erosive wear prediction in run-of-river hydropower plants," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 886-891.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352295
Abstract: In run-of-river or diversion type hydropower projects, a small reservoir is created by constructing an intake weir to divert river flow through head race tunnel to an adjacent valley utilizing the available head for power generation. The projects are also developed based on the concept of sustaining reservoir life by sediment management achieved by a desilting basin. Sediment can damage turbines and other mechanical equipment through erosion of the coating on the blades, leading to surface irregularities and more serious material damage. In this study, the suspended sediment concentrations and the particle size distribution at the intake weir and the settling basin of a run-of-river hydropower plant in Bentong Malaysia were measured using Laser In-Situ Scattering and Transmissometry (LISST) instrument. The measurements were performed in vertical line at four different depths around the intake and the mean particle size distribution was calculated from the data for each measured point. The measurements in the intake were particularly interesting since the concentration and the sizes of the particles, which will likewise to further enter the head race tunnel could be evaluated. Considering uncertainties of sediments estimation due to the hydrological and meteorological variability, Pearson system was used to estimate the erosion wear on the turbine based on the measured data.
keywords: {Sediments;Atmospheric measurements;Particle measurements;Hydroelectric power generation;Measurement by laser beam;Size measurement;Rivers;run-of-river;hydropower;LISST;suspended sediment;Pearson system},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352295&isnumber=8352140

N. Müller, S. Kouro, P. Zanchetta and P. Wheeler, "Bidirectional partial power converter interface for energy storage systems to provide peak shaving in grid-tied PV plants," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 892-897.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352296
Abstract: The ever growing participation of modern renewable resources in electric markets has shaken the paradigm of generation-demand constant match. Most modern renewables add intermittent behaviour and high variability to electric markets, forcing other renewables and themselves to perform power curtailment and/or having extra generating units connected to the network to compensate power, voltage and frequency variations. In order to handle this scenario, Energy Storage Systems (ESSs) have risen as enabling technologies capable to provide backup energy to compensate power, voltage and frequency fluctuations and, at the same time, offer additional benefits as ancillary services, peak shaving, load shifting, base load generation, etc. This paper presents a novel bidirectional Partial Power Converter (PPC), as an interface between a Battery ESS (BESS) and a grid-tied Photovoltaic (PV) plant. To obtain a better understanding of the converter, its mathematical model is presented and its operation modes are explained. The main purpose of this configuration is to provide peak shaving capability to a grid-tied PV plant, while providing a high efficiency BESS. Simulation results show the operation of the full system (grid-tied PV plant and BESS), performing peak shaving under a step-down and up in solar irradiation.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Electrostatic discharges;Batteries;Inverters;Inductance;Capacitors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352296&isnumber=8352140

A. S. Satpathy, D. Kastha and N. K. Kishore, "Choice of converter scheme and turbine specification for stand-alone wind energy conversion system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 898-903.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352297
Abstract: Small wind turbines (SWTs), with a power rating less than 10 kW, coupled to self-excited induction generators (SEIG), have proved to be an attractive option for meeting the load demand at stand-alone sites. As the output voltage and frequency of such SEIG based Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS) are dependent on the wind speed and load demand they have to be interfaced with the load by a suitable power electronics interface. In the paper, the yearly energy output of an SEIG based WECS using two different types of power Electronic converters namely (i) VSI based STATCOM and (ii) Back to Back connected VSI are compared and an algorithm is proposed to make a choice between the two. Also the effect of the SWT design on the yearly energy output at a given location is investigated.
keywords: {Wind speed;Wind turbines;Rotors;Torque;Topology;Mathematical model;Converters;WECS;Machine Flux control;Energy yield},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352297&isnumber=8352140

A. Amamou, L. Boulon and S. Kelouwani, "Comparison of self cold start strategies of automotive Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 904-908.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352298
Abstract: This paper presents an experimental comparison between two self-cold start strategies of automotive Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells. The compared strategies are the most commonly studied ones based on constant voltage and constant current modes, and they are the most effective regarding the energy consumption and system cost. Experimental results show that constant voltage strategy is more advantageous than the constant current strategy in terms of heating time and energy consumption. Nevertheless, constant voltage strategy does not adapt to the variation of operating conditions which creates a problem of repeatability.
keywords: {Current density;Heating systems;Fuel cells;Hydrogen;Energy consumption;Degradation;Protons;cold start;Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell;experimental approach;constant current;constant voltage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352298&isnumber=8352140

I. Chtouki, P. Wira and M. Zazi, "Comparison of several neural network perturb and observe MPPT methods for photovoltaic applications," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 909-914.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352299
Abstract: In this article, artificial neural network approaches are proposed to achieve an adaptive Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) strategy. Several neural controllers are applied to a boost converter supplied by a standalone PV system. These neural controllers combine two kinds of technique to achieve an adaptive MPPT strategy: A Perturb and Observe P&O technique is combined to a Multilayer Perception's (MLP) learning capabilities. According to this principle, three neural structures are proposed. If their inputs are electrical and environmental parameters; the outputs are the predicted output power at a given instant or the duty cycle to control the boost converter. Several simulation tests allow comparing the performances of the proposed neural P&O controllers with a conventional method. The MPPT with the neural controllers provide low oscillations around the point of maximum power and a fast tracking response to changing conditions.
keywords: {Maximum power point trackers;Neurons;Artificial neural networks;Load modeling;Generators;Photovoltaic systems;Photovoltaic systems;solar energy;perturb and observe;MPPT;boost converter;neural controller;multilayer Perceptron;artificial neural networks},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352299&isnumber=8352140

P. Dey, M. Datta, N. Fernando and T. Senjyu, "Coordinated control technique of PMSG based wind energy conversion system during repetitive grid fault," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 915-920.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352300
Abstract: This paper presents a coordinated control of pitch angle of a wind turbine, flux control of permanent magnet synchronous generator (PMSG) and voltage regulation of grid for low voltage ride through (LVRT) enhancement of PMSG based variable speed wind energy conversion system (WECS). Within this strategy, pitch angle controller is modified to adjust the pitch for power smoothing during variable wind speed as well as LVRT during repetitive grid fault. Flux controller is used to weakening the induced flux through providing negative field regulating current to keep the DC link voltage within the permissible limit in grid voltage dips. And reactive power control is used to provide voltage support during a grid fault. Extensive simulations of proposed method have been carried out under different repetitive fault. The proposed controller performance is validated by time series simulation. The results are compared with different conventional control for verification.
keywords: {Voltage control;Circuit faults;Capacitors;Reactive power;Wind speed;Stators;Wind turbines;Low voltage ride through;pitch angle;flux weakening;gridfault;DC voltage;frequency},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352300&isnumber=8352140

C. A. Ramos-Paja, G. Petrone, G. Spagnuolo, D. Gonzalez and S. Sergio-Serna, "Current equalization of mismatched PV panels based on a capacitor energy storage," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 921-926.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352301
Abstract: In this paper a new approach for improving the energy production of photovoltaic (PV) field operating under partial shading conditions is proposed. The idea is based on the dynamic connection of an energy storage element to the PV field, thus achieving the current equalization among mismatched PV panels. In order to simplify the explanation, the partial shading occurring on a single PV panel is discussed in depth in this paper. Nevertheless, the proposed approach is scalable to any PV array by extending the proposed configuration at the PV panel level instead of at the sub-panel level. Simulations of the complete PV system confirm the validity of the proposed approach.
keywords: {Discharges (electric);Capacitors;Production;Energy storage;Switching converters;Electronic mail;Photovoltaic systems;Partial shading;Super-capacitor;Photovoltaic},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352301&isnumber=8352140

S. Fadhel et al., "Data-driven approach for isolated PV shading fault diagnosis based on experimental I-V curves analysis," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 927-932.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352302
Abstract: This paper deals with a data-driven fault diagnosis method for photovoltaic (PV) system. The proposed method is based on the Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to detect and identify different shading types. The PCA uses the current-voltage (I-V) curves that are experimentally determined for a monocrystalline PV module of 250Wc. The experimental tests were carried out for several shading patterns covering the PV cells. For the diagnosis process, three features (current, voltage and power of PV module) are extracted for each test to build the database which is then analyzed through the PCA algorithm. Simulation results using the experimental data, prove the efficiency of the proposed method in terms of discrimination. The healthy data are clearly separated from the faulty ones despite sudden irradiation variations.
keywords: {Principal component analysis;Radiation effects;Fault diagnosis;Loading;Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions;Temperature measurement;Covariance matrices;PV cells;Shadow faults;I-V curves;Principal Component Analysis;Fault diagnosis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352302&isnumber=8352140

N. Hirao, A. Ohsaki, T. Kubota and K. Fukumiya, "Demonstrating a predictive control system for a ground source heat pump: A case study from an industry-university-government cooperation project for renewable energy technologies in Japan," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 933-937.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352303
Abstract: This paper presents a predictive control system for a Ground Source Heat Pump (GSHP) that was developed as an Industry-University-Government Cooperation project in Japan. Using a GSHP system as a renewable energy technology to heat and cool entire districts attracts attention; however, constructing a stable GSHP system is necessary because the load easily varies in district power systems. Therefore, we developed and tested a GSHP system that can change its operational mode based on a temperature prediction from the heat source. We have confirmed that the proposed predictive control system is able to manage the temperature of the heat source, and believe that GSHP system could be used for district heating and cooling systems.
keywords: {Water heating;Predictive control;Temperature sensors;Heat pumps;Ground source heat pump;district heating and cooling system},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352303&isnumber=8352140

V. Boscaino, G. Cipriani, G. Drago, V. Di Dio, M. G. Ippolito and J. A. Sa'ed, "Design, modeling, and simulation of a photovoltaic water pumping system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 938-943.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352304
Abstract: Electric pumps cannot be fed in those areas where they are not connected to the electric public distribution grid. In those areas, it is useful to feed electric pumps by means of the electricity generated from renewable energy sources plants. Among these, the Solar Water Pumping Systems feed electric pump thanks to the electricity generated by a photovoltaic plant. In this paper, a whole SWPS is fully designed, modelled, and simulated in Matlab environment. The proposed implementation is an useful tool for SWPS testing.
keywords: {Photovoltaic;Water;Pumping;MPPT;ancillary functions},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352304&isnumber=8352140

A. Cabrera-Tobar, M. Aragüés-Peñalba and O. Gomis-Bellmunt, "Dynamic modelling and control of a PV generator for large scale applications," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 944-949.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352305
Abstract: As large scale photovoltaic power plants are increasing their capacity, the new grid codes are requiring that these power plants have similar performance as conventional power plants do. Because of this, it is essential to study the performance of these power plants under different solar irradiance, temperature and electrical characteristics. As the basic unit of these type of power plants are the PV generators, the present study explains in detail the model of a PV generator: PV array, the dc bus, the PV inverter, the filter and the transformer. The control method for active and reactive power is also explained and considers the variation of ambient conditions plus the capability curves of PV generators. Finally, some simulations are developed to validate the model.
keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Generators;Capacitors;Task analysis;Power generation;Reactive power},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352305&isnumber=8352140

V. M. Phap, N. Yamamura, M. Ishida, I. Mizoguchi, T. Yamashita and N. T. Nga, "Efficiency enhancement of PV cell emulating system in connection mode," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 950-953.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352306
Abstract: The grid-tied solar power systems are rapidly developing in many countries. The working efficiency of the power conditioner system (PCS) in the grid-tied solar power system is limited because the power supply from solar panel depends on the climate condition. We proposed a novel technical design in the previous research to connect the small scale wind turbine with the PCS of the grid-tied solar power system by emulating technical characteristics of the PV in series connection mode. Therefore, the utilization rate of the PCS was enhanced. However, this enhanced operating efficiency of the PCS is not good in changing solar irradiation condition because the maximum input voltage of the PCS is restricted and the output voltage of the PV alters slightly. Thus, we introduce a technical method of efficiency improvement for the photovoltaic (PV) cell emulating system in connection mode in this research.
keywords: {Solar power system;Small wind turbine;PV cell emulating system;Power conditioner system},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352306&isnumber=8352140

T. A. Pereira, T. P. Horn, W. M. dos Santos, S. A. Mussa, D. C. Martins and R. F. Coelho, "Electrical characterizer of photovoltaic modules using the DC/DC Ćuk converter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 954-959.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352307
Abstract: This paper presents the procedures employed to specify, design and implement a Ćuk converter of 300 W, applied as an electrical characterizer of photovoltaic modules. The designed prototype is autonomous, portable and allows to transfer the measured data (voltage, current, solar irradiance and temperature) to a personal computer by RS232 serial communication. From these quantities, the I-V and P-V curves are plotted and the five parameters that describe the one diode model of the tested PV module are obtained. Thus, it is possible to replicate the photovoltaic module behavior in a simulation platform regarding any solar irradiance and temperature conditions. In order to validate the accuracy of the developed characterizer, the experimental curves obtained from it are compared with those acquired from the use of a commercial PV tracer.
keywords: {TV;Photovoltaic systems;Capacitance;Inductance;Analog-digital conversion;Capacitors;Electrical characterizer;Ćuk Converter;Photovoltaic modules;PV tracer},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352307&isnumber=8352140

S. A. S. Alarefi and S. D. Walker, "Empirical investigation and Simulink-simulation modelling of hydropower generator characteristic impedance," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 960-965.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352308
Abstract: Research on the electrical characteristics of hydroelectric power systems has, to our knowledge not received much attention. However, renewed interest in hydropower microgeneration has created a need to understand the underlying properties. This paper presents a pioneering empirical investigation into the electrical characteristics of micro-hydro power generators (MHPGs). We demonstrate ohmic characteristic behavior in MHPGs with constant source impedance, even with varying water flow. A novel heuristic model for hydroelectric power generator is then described and validated through Simulink simulation.
keywords: {Impedance;Mathematical model;Generators;Hydroelectric power generation;Software packages;Integrated circuit modeling;Matlab;MHPG;Electrical Characteristics;Characteristic Impedance;Simulink Simulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352308&isnumber=8352140

R. Saidi, J. C. Olivier, M. Machmoum and E. Chauveau, "Energy management strategy for hybrid power systems based on moving average filters and power forecasting," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 966-971.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352309
Abstract: This paper presents a new algorithm of electric energy management of hybrid power systems for self-consumption in isolated areas. This algorithm is inspired by the frequency separation method. Indeed, it is based on the calculation of sliding averages using centered moving average filters, which allow simultaneous and natural processing of measurement data (past) and load and sunshine forecast (future). Moreover, this algorithm has no limits of degrees of freedom and can handle more than two sources of energy without resorting to complex problems. The algorithm is tested on a hybrid system composed of solar panels as a renewable energy source, a fuel cell as a secondary source, a battery bank and a supercapacitor bank as energy storage systems. The main aim of the proposed strategy is to minimize the total operating cost of the system while satisfying the constraints required by the energy storage systems. Furthermore, the robustness of the proposed method is highly improved through the addition of an automatic correction process. The simulation results are convincing and validate the proposed energy management strategy.
keywords: {energy management;moving average;degrees of freedom;power forecasting},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352309&isnumber=8352140

S. Grami and Y. Gharbia, "Experimental investigation of new designed solar parabolic trough collectors," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 972-977.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352310
Abstract: Many studies have shown that dust accumulation can adversely affect the performance of solar collectors and parabolic through collectors, with no exceptions. This problem is of particular interest in the Gulf Region, due the high frequency of dusty days and sand storms. To ensure consistent performance of solar collectors, frequent cleaning therefore is needed. Autonomous cleaning of parabolic trough collectors has not been a feasible option due to the trough shape and the existence of the receiver tube. In this paper, it is intended to make cleaning much easier by closing the trough cavity using borosilicate sheets. An experimental investigation of the new design showed that it has about 23% as thermal efficiency compared to 18% for the conventional trough collector. This new design showed an important improvement of the trough collector (27%) in terms of thermal efficiency and solved the problem of dust accumulation by an easy cleaning procedure. Relevance to Industry: The newly designed parabolic trough collector introduced in this paper can increase significantly the thermal efficiency of a power plant, based on renewable energy and decrease the cost of cleaning and maintenance of parabolic troughs.
keywords: {Cleaning;Electron tubes;Heat transfer;Mirrors;Shape;Sun;Glass},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352310&isnumber=8352140

N. Jain, X. Fan, W. D. Leon-Salas and A. M. Lucietto, "Extending battery life of smartphones by overcoming idle power consumption using ambient light energy harvesting," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 978-983.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352311
Abstract: Consumer electronic devices such as smartphones, tablets, and laptops typically require recharging once or twice a day and have limited battery life. Increasing adoption of and dependence on smartphones has led to consumers occasionally carrying conventional chargers, USBs, power packs, or solar chargers to sustain their devices throughout the day. These products are bulky, heavy, and expensive. New approaches are necessary to improve consumers' day-to-day experiences with charging their electronic devices. This paper explores the application of ambient light energy harvesting using a Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) solar cell to extend the battery life of smartphones. Different solar cell types, maximum power point tracking (MPPT) algorithms, and harvester ICs are analyzed in addition to smartphone user behavior model and standby/idle power consumption. Finally, the performance of a light energy harvesting system (EHS) using a GaAs solar cell and an ultra-low power energy harvester is compared for different indoor light sources. Maximum power of approximately 12 mW is produced indoors by the EHS for a smartphone-sized GaAs solar panel. For smartphones that consume 30 mW when idle, the GaAs solar panel can reduce the idle power consumption by almost half indoors, hence, doubling the time the device can be kept idle. Based on the results, practical benefits and challenges of such a system for various consumer electronic devices are discussed.
keywords: {Smart phones;Batteries;Photovoltaic cells;Power demand;Solar panels;Energy harvesting;Gallium arsenide;energy harvesting;solar panels;gallium arsenide;maximum power point trackers;cellular phones},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352311&isnumber=8352140

S. S. Chauhan, S. K. Manhas and M. M. Joglekar, "Fabrication of cantilever MEMs structure of C-axis grown AlN film for energy harvester application," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 984-988.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352312
Abstract: In this paper first, c-axis oriented AlN Piezoelectric thin film is deposited on Mo/SiO2 substrate by reactive magnetron sputtering method. Second, fabricated cantilever structure of deposited multilayered thin films using dry, followed by the wet etching process to complement each other to easily release the cantilever for MEMs piezoelectric energy harvester application. Deposited thin films characterized using x-ray diffraction (XRD) to confirm the c-axis oriented growth of AlN film and peak due to (110) plane of deposited molybdenum (Mo) film. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to measure the surface roughness of films. Fabricated cantilever structures are characterized using field electron microscopy (FE-SEM). Measured full width of half maxima (FWHM) of deposited AlN and Mo films are 0.82 ° and 0.38° respectively, confirming good quality of films. Before, releasing of cantilever structures by the wet etching process, dry etching was used to help in easy to release and also reduced the cantilever releasing time. It was obverted that cantilevers were released within 1 hours 15 minutes using first, dry etching followed by the wet etching process, which is 2.5 times faster than only by wet etching process.
keywords: {Aluminum nitride;III-V semiconductor materials;Substrates;Wet etching;Dry etching;Sputtering;AlN film;c-axis oriented;sputtering;wet and dry etching;cantilever structure},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352312&isnumber=8352140

R. Vidal-Albalate, R. Pena, S. Añó-Villalba, E. Belenguer and R. Blasco-Gimenez, "Hybrid full bridge-half bridge MML power converter for HVDC diode rectifier connection of large off-shore wind farms," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 994-999.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352314
Abstract: The connection of large off-shore wind farms using diode rectifier (DR) units presents important advantages due to the simplicity of the diode rectifier converter, its robustness and weight and loss reduction. Moreover, series connected diode rectifier units allow for increased reliability as the system is capable of reduced power operation in the case of the failure of one unit. However, a DR unit outage requires a reduced DC voltage, consequently, the use of full bridge MML power converters at the on-shore station. Such converters allow for reduced HVDC-link voltage operation when one diode rectifier unit is faulty and also help to improve transient response during faults. However, the full bridge MML is more complex than its half bridge counterpart and has higher losses. In this paper a study has been carried out to ascertain the advantages and disadvantages of using a mixed full-bridge half-bridge MML power converter for the diode rectifier connection of off-shore wind farms, highlighting the operational limits of each type of MML converter under a reduced DC voltage.
keywords: {Integrated circuits;Noise measurement;HVDC transmission control;HVDC Diode Rectifiers;Wind power generation;Power system harmonics;MML Power Converters},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352314&isnumber=8352140

K. Moutaki, H. Ikaouassen, A. Raddaoui, M. Rezkallah and A. Chandra, "Improved Lyapunov function based control approach for single-stage inverter grid interfacing solar photovoltaic system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1000-1005.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352315
Abstract: In this paper improved Lyapunov-function based control approach for single-stage inverter with LCL-filter to achieve high performance from solar photovoltaic system interfacing grid without using maximum power point tracking (MPPT), is detailed. Furthermore, single-stage inverter is controlled to inject the generated at the point common coupling (PCC) with high power quality. In addition detailed stability analysis is offered. To reduce the high switching frequency, passive LCL filter with optimum values is used. The performance of the proposed control strategy is validated using Matlab/Simulink under load and weather condition change.
keywords: {Inverters;Passive filters;Voltage control;Lyapunov methods;Mathematical model;Two dimensional displays;Resistance;Single-stage inverter;Photvoltaic system;Lyapunov function based control;power quality;LCL passive filter},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352315&isnumber=8352140

J. Meunier and D. Knittel, "Innovative real-time energy management by using portfolio algorithms," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1006-1011.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352316
Abstract: Photovoltaic panels represent an intermittent way of providing electricity without altering natural resources. Due to its intermittent nature and to meet consumers demand, this energy needs to be stored, for example by using a battery. In this work, an energy model for buildings with battery is developed, based on electrical consumption and production data. This model takes into account the depth of discharge, state of charge and efficiency over a cycle of a lithium type battery. Three rule-based strategies are then described. This leads to our optimization problem and proposed algorithms. Then an innovative real-time energy management strategy is proposed: for each switch time, the best algorithm is automatically selected from a portfolio of algorithms and maintained along the switch period. Real-time simulation conducted over one year have shown the efficiency of the approach.
keywords: {Batteries;Production;Optimization;Photovoltaic systems;State of charge;Switches;Optimization;photovoltaic system;battery control;energy management;portfolio algorithms},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352316&isnumber=8352140

S. O. Kimbrough, M. McElfresh and C. van Dinther, "On the business case for merchant solar," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1012-1018.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352317
Abstract: This paper addresses what we call the investment question: Under what plausible circumstances, if any, can variable renewable energy (VRE, and solar photovoltaic (PV) in particular) be a good investment? Although VRE has been growing rapidly world-wide, it is generally subsidized. Under what cost and market conditions can solar PV flourish without subsidy? We employ solar insolation and market price data from the U.S. and from Germany to gain insight into the investment question. We find that unsubsidized solar PV is or may soon be a justifiable investment, but that market arrangements may play a crucial role in determining success. We end by sketching a proposal that amounts to a reformed capacity market that would afford participation of solar PV.
keywords: {Generators;Investment;Production;Solar radiation;Standards;Meters;solar PV;solar penetration;renewables penetration;curtailment;capacity market;solar investment},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352317&isnumber=8352140

J. M. Rey, P. P. Vergara, M. Castilla, A. Camacho and J. Miret, "Local hierarchical control for industrial microgrids with improved frequency regulation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1019-1024.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352318
Abstract: Local control strategies that operate without relying on communication systems enhance flexibility and reliability of AC industrial microgrids. Based on a previous work in which a secondary switched control was proposed, this paper presents a complementary strategy to improve the frequency regulation by reducing the maximum error. To this end, a dynamic-gain droop method driven by a time protocol is used. With this proposal, the maximum frequency error is effectively reduced without relying on complex techniques and maintaining the simplicity of the basis strategy and the non-use of communications. Experimental results obtained on a laboratory microgrid are presented to validate the performance of the proposed complementary control strategy.
keywords: {Frequency control;Protocols;Microgrids;Event detection;Switches},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352318&isnumber=8352140

M. N. Soares, J. Gyselinck, L. G. B. Rolim, J. Helsen and Y. Mollet, "Loss minimisation strategy for DFIG in wind turbine considering iron losses," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1025-1030.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352319
Abstract: Nowadays doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) is the mainly used generator in wind power generation, and several efforts are being made to tackle the issues related to their high production costs. In order to solve this problem, this work presents an optimized control strategy that seeks to mitigate the electrical losses inside the generator. The control strategy is based on the optimal reactive power sharing between the rotor and stator circuits of the generator connected to a back-to-back power electronic converter (PEC). In this paper the iron losses, which are traditionally ignored in machine models and vector controls, are considered to achieve better performance. Moreover, since the loss minimisation strategy requires different converter operation points, a numerical model for calculating the semiconductor power losses is shown to evaluate whether this strategy compromises the system losses. Simulation results for a 7.5 kW DFIG show the amount of power saved when the loss minimisation control is applied.
keywords: {Doubly fed induction generators;Reactive power;Iron;Rotors;Stators;Insulated gate bipolar transistors;Loss Minimisation;Doubly Fed Induction Generator;Vector Control;Loss Model},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352319&isnumber=8352140

A. Benzagmout, T. Martire, G. Beaufils, O. Fruchier, T. Talbert and D. Gachon, "Measurement of the I(V) characteristics of photovoltaic arrays by the capacitive load method for fault detection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1031-1036.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352320
Abstract: Photovoltaic power plants are more and more numerous all over the planet. In France, profit of PV power plants is done by a fixed buying back price of electricity. Until year 2020 the repurchase price of electricity will be constant, then variability of electricity will begin. Thus, to keep PV power plant profitable, a new management model is necessary. This model includes resource prediction, fault detection and management of maintenance and servicing to maximize energy production. This paper focus only on the fault detection. In a first part, we present I(V) tracers with some original characteristics (2 quadrant measurements, simplicity and almost insensitive to environmental parameters). Then, we focus on electrical signatures of PV array defaults. Finally, we conclude this paper with the perspective of a full fault detection system in PV power plant.
keywords: {Power electronics;Photovoltaic;Fault detection;Electrical signature of PV defaults},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352320&isnumber=8352140

M. Hijjo and G. Frey, "Multi-objective optimization for scheduling isolated microgrids," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1037-1042.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352321
Abstract: Following up the recent innovations in smart microgrids as well as the continuous deployment of renewable energy resources (RES), the need for efficient operation of microgrids is increasing. Particularly, microgrid scheduling involves a challenging optimization problem, where continuous and discrete optimization tasks are to be solved. One of the challenges involved in this problem is to provide an optimal scheduling policy of the incorporated resources that can ensure maximum utilization of the RES and minimum operational cost of the conventional resources as well (which are not necessarily equivalent). From this perspective, this work proposes an optimal scheduling approach of a hybrid microgrid, incorporating battery storage system (BSS), conventional generation (e.g. diesel generator), and photovoltaic solar generators (PVs), by using dynamic programming (DP). The optimal switching strategy between conventional generation and BSS is explored firstly. Thereafter, the associated optimal charging and discharging policy of the BSS is investigated based on day-ahead power profiles of the load and renewable generation, which are all assumed predictable up to a realistic uncertainty. The proposed approach is compared with the conventional one which does not employ the feature of prediction.
keywords: {Microgrids;Optimal scheduling;Batteries;Generators;Energy management;Power generation;PV-Battery-Diesel Microgrid;Scheduling;Optimization;Uncertainty;Dynamic Programming (DP)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352321&isnumber=8352140

N. B. Ahamad, M. Othman, J. C. Vasquez, J. M. Guerrero and C. Su, "Optimal sizing and performance evaluation of a renewable energy based microgrid in future seaports," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1043-1048.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352322
Abstract: This paper presents the optimal design and specifies the dimension, energy planning and evaluates the performance of a microgrid to supply the electricity to the load by using integrated microgrid. The integrated system consists of PV, wind turbine and a battery for grid-connected. This paper also analyzes the performance of the designed system based on seaport located in Copenhagen, Denmark as a case study. The analysis is performed by using Hybrid Optimization Model for Electric Renewables (HOMER) software which includes optimization and sensitivity analysis result. The simulation result indicates that the implementation of microgrid technologies would be a convenient solution to supply the electricity to the load applied (shipboard).
keywords: {Batteries;Optimization;Production;Mathematical model;Microgrids;Wind turbines;Software;Cold ironing;Microgrid;HOMER;Optimization;wind turbine;Photovoltaic},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352322&isnumber=8352140

H. M. K. Al-Masri, A. AbuElrub and M. Ehsani, "Optimization and layout of a wind farm connected to a power distribution system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1049-1054.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352323
Abstract: This paper presents a techno-economic and environmental investigation of a grid connected wind energy system in Jordan's desert as a case study application for an oil-importing country. The system is mathematically modeled in MATLAB based on the hourly instantaneous data of both wind speed and the 2016 load demand. Two artificial intelligence techniques of genetic algorithm (GA) and simulated annealing (SA) are used to get the global solution of the objective function, which is the cost of energy of retrofitted system. The carbon emissions and the cost of energy of the system are reduced by 58.39% and 18.74% respectively. So, harnessing wind power is a long-term solution and a viable alternative to the fossil fuels, because it is affordable and clean.
keywords: {Wind speed;Wind farms;Wind turbines;Wind energy;Mathematical model;Genetic algorithms;Optimization;Wind power plant;optimization;MATLAB;economic;environment;genetic algorithm;simulated annealing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352323&isnumber=8352140

G. Petrone, S. Romanelli, G. Spagnuolo and S. Valkealahti, "Photovoltaic plant cloud shadowing and energy drops in Northern Europe," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1055-1060.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352324
Abstract: In this paper the effect of shadowing due to clouds on the energy production of a photovoltaic power plant installed in northern latitudes in Finland is analyzed. Numerical techniques, which can be also implemented on an embedded system because of their low computational and memory requirements, have been used for having an efficient processing of millions of experimental current vs. voltage curves acquired on the photovoltaic plant. The analysis allows to affirm that, at high latitudes, clouds can have a significant instantaneous effect on the power produced by the plant, but the time duration of the power drop is so short that the energy production is only marginally affected. This result is in full agreement with other studies appeared in the recent literature and suggests that, in such contexts, control electronics producers should avoid to implement related maximum power point tracking techniques for facing mismatched conditions, since their effect on energy production appears to be negligible.
keywords: {Shadow mapping;Clouds;Production;Feature extraction;Photovoltaic systems;Energy loss;photovoltaic;maximum power point tracking;mismatching effect;shadowing;energy production},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352324&isnumber=8352140

E. Duverger, C. Penin, P. Alexandre, F. Thiery, D. Gachon and T. Talbert, "PV modeling methods of an off-grid experimental microgrid," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1061-1066.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352325
Abstract: The development of microgrids improves the effective integration of Distributed Generation (DG), especially Renewable Energy Sources (RES). Due to the intermittency of electricity production from renewable energies such as solar or wind, Energy Storage System (ESS) is important to achieve higher flexibility and reliability of network. The massive development of smart grid should take into consideration the following issues such as modeling, monitoring and management. This paper presents the advantages and drawbacks of two PV modeling methods and their performance. The first approach is based on manufacturer datasheet, whereas the second is based on the full range of the experimental I-V curve to determinate PV model parameters. First, we present a detailed description of our experimental microgrid named “Rivesaltes-Grid”. Then, we focus on the models and experimental measurements of the Distributed Generation (DG): PV car parks. Finally, we conclude and discuss the performance of the models and the future perspectives.
keywords: {Microgrids;Integrated circuit modeling;Genetic algorithms;Mathematical model;Production;Energy management;Batteries;microgrid modeling;demonstrator;photovoltaics;PV model;electric vehicle},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352325&isnumber=8352140

J. Meunier, D. Knittel and G. Sturtzer, "Robust multi-objective optimization of a photovoltaic system with grid connection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1067-1072.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352326
Abstract: Photovoltaic panels are a way of providing electricity without altering natural resources. Due to its intermittent nature and to meet consumers demand, this energy has to be stored, for example by using batteries. In this work, an energy model for buildings with battery is developed based on electrical consumption and production data. This model takes into account the depth of discharge, state of charge and efficiency over a cycle of a lithium type battery. Three rule-based strategies are then described. This leads to our optimization problem. The optimization is applied on two time slots: one day (in order to explore rapidly the behavior of different algorithm strategies) and one week (for pseudo real-time simulation). Robust multi-objective optimization is performed in order to reduce the impact of consumption prediction errors.
keywords: {Batteries;Optimization;Production;Photovoltaic systems;State of charge;Buildings;Multi-objective optimization;Photovoltaic system;Battery control;Energy management;Evolutionary algorithms},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352326&isnumber=8352140

U. Akram, M. Khalid and S. Shafiq, "Towards reliable microgrids — An economic and environmental evaluation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1073-1078.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352327
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology for the capacity optimization of a residential stand-alone microgrid employing solar photovoltaics (PVs), wind turbines (WTs), battery energy storage system (BESS), and diesel generator (DG) for electric power generation and typical house power demand and electrical vehicle (EV) power demand as load power demand. The cost function is formulated based upon life cycle cost, dump energy cost, and green-house gases (GHG) emissions. The optimization problem involves a variety of realistic constraints from hybrid renewable power generation, BESS, diesel generation system, and EVs. The sizing problem is formulated and solved for different possible topologies of renewable energy sources (PV and WT), BESS, and DG, and a comparison based upon cost per unit, GHG emissions, and emission reduction benefit cost is presented.
keywords: {Optimization;Batteries;Maintenance engineering;Generators;Power systems;Investment;Battery energy storage;Electric vehicle;Optimization;Renewable energy sources},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352327&isnumber=8352140

B. Guo, A. Mohamed, S. Bacha and M. Alamir, "Variable speed micro-hydro power plant: Modelling, losses analysis, and experiment validation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1079-1084.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352328
Abstract: Micro-hydro power has huge potential in the renewable energy section. This paper focuses on modelling, losses analysis, and experimental validation of the Micro-Hydro Power Generation System (MHPGS). An efficient practical `hill charts' based 3-D model is generated, which provides a general philosophy on obtaining the mathematical model for different types of micro-hydraulic turbines. What is more, global losses of both variable speed and fixed speed operations are analysed, and then verified in a Power Hardware-In-the-Loop (PHIL) benchmark. Finally, experiments results have proved that the 3-D model based Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) performs efficiently, and the variable speed operation gains higher global efficiency compared with the fixed speed case, especially when the valve opening ratio is far from the optimised operation point.
keywords: {Hydraulic turbines;Mathematical model;Solid modeling;Microhydro power;Adaptation models;Analytical models;Benchmark testing;micro-hydro power;variable speed;modelling;MPPT;losses analysis;experiment validation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352328&isnumber=8352140

B. Bilal et al., "Wind turbine power output prediction model design based on artificial neural networks and climatic spatiotemporal data," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1085-1092.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352329
Abstract: This paper deals with the prediction of wind turbines power output and proposes an approach to building a prediction model using the Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). The wind speed and output power measured on the site of Sendou, in Senegal, were used to identify the structure of the ANN. Spatiotemporal data on the climatic variables (wind speed, solar radiation, temperature, humidity, wind direction) collected on the same site were used to train the ANN. Data collected on three other sites (Goback, Keur Abdoul Ndoye and Sine Moussa Abdou), located on the northwest coast of Senegal, were used to validate the model and to analyze the influence of the spatial climatic variables on the performance of the model. Results showed the interest of considering climatic variables (wind speed, wind direction, solar radiation, temperature and humidity) as inputs to the ANN for wind turbines output power prediction. Further, this study showed that the prediction of the produced power depends strongly on the characteristics of the sites and the direction of the wind.
keywords: {Artificial neural networks;Wind turbines;Wind speed;Predictive models;Neurons;Analytical models;Data models;Climatic data;neural networks;power prediction;wind turbine},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352329&isnumber=8352140

"TT power systems and smart grids," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1093-1094.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352330
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352330&isnumber=8352140

J. Vuelvas, F. Ruiz and G. Gruosso, "A contract for demand response based on probability of call," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1095-1100.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352331
Abstract: A useful tool for reducing energy consumption at peak times is through an incentive-based demand response program. Each participant user is paid for diminishing his energy requirement according to a baseline. However, this demand response program presents truthfulness and gaming concerns since consumers can alter their reported information in order to increase their well-being. Therefore, a novel contract is proposed to induce asymptotic incentive-compatibility (truthfulness) and individual rationality (voluntary participation) through the probability of call. In this approach, each consumer announces his baseline and reduction capacity; given the cost of electricity, incentive price and a penalty caused by any deviation between self-reported and actual energy consumption. A payment scheme is implemented for all participant consumers where an aggregator decides what users are called to perform the energy reduction. A two-stage stochastic optimization problem is formulated in order to understand the rational behavior of consumers that participate under this contract. As result, asymptotic truth-telling behavior in incentive-based DR is managed by the aggregator through the probability of call for each agent. Numerical optimization results show that the aggregator can limit gaming opportunities irrespective of consumer's private preferences by controlling user's participation.
keywords: {Contracts;Energy consumption;Load management;Optimization;Electronic mail;Smart grids;Economics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352331&isnumber=8352140

N. K. Thokala, A. Bapna and M. G. Chandra, "A deployable electrical load forecasting solution for commercial buildings," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1101-1106.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352332
Abstract: Electrical load forecasting for buildings plays a key role in the smart-grid paradigm, since accurate forecasts help in efficient energy management. This paper presents a practical solution, which can be readily deployed, by considering various real-life issues. Load forecasting algorithms are developed using Non-linear AutoRegressive model with eXogenous input (NARX) neural network and Support Vector Regression (SVR) to forecast the power consumption for day ahead, week ahead and month ahead at 15 minute granularity. Missing values, outliers in the power consumption data are treated using simple but effective techniques based on the thorough understanding of the power consumption time-series data. Autoregressive features, temperature and some efficacious contextual information, which are completely pertinent to this problem, are being derived to model this heterogeneous time series that consists of disparate patterns on weekdays, weekends and holidays. The novelty of the solution lies in the fact that it extensively models all the variations and produces accurate long term predictions at high granularity (15 min). The algorithms are validated using the actual power consumption data from three Office buildings; forecasting accuracy of both SVR and NARX neural network are comparable, the latter performs better by a thin margin. The average forecasting accuracy is nearly 93%, 88-90% and 85-87% for day ahead, week ahead and month ahead forecasting respectively.
keywords: {Buildings;Load forecasting;Load modeling;Predictive models;Forecasting;Time series analysis;load forecasting;NARX neural networks;support vector regression;energy management},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352332&isnumber=8352140

G. Rigatos, N. Zervos, P. Siano, P. Wira and M. Abbaszadeh, "A differential flatness theory-based control approach for steam-turbine power generation units," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1107-1112.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352333
Abstract: The article proposes flatness-based control and non-linear Kalman Filtering for power generation units comprising synchronous generators connected to steam turbines. It is shown that the dynamic model of this power system is a differentially flat one. This property signifies that all its state variables and its control inputs can be expressed as differential functions of selected state variables of it, the latter standing for the flat outputs of the system. This allows for its transformation into a linear canonical form in which the design of a feedback controller and the solution of the state estimation problem become possible. Moreover, by introducing a Kalman Filter-based disturbance observer it becomes possible to identify in real time the perturbation terms that affect the power system's model. Through the proposed flatness-based controller, fast and accurate tracking of all reference setpoints is achieved by the state vector elements of the power unit. Moreover, through the proposed Kalman Filter-based disturbances estimator the control loop is given additional robustness against modelling errors and external perturbations.
keywords: {Turbines;Synchronous generators;Power system dynamics;Kalman filters;Mathematical model},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352333&isnumber=8352140

A. M. Jadhav, N. R. Patne, M. R. Ramteke and S. Parvathy, "A novel approach to incentive based energy sharing among neighbourhood smart homes," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1113-1118.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352334
Abstract: This paper presents an incentive based energy sharing mechanism for a community of smart homes (SHs) which are located in physical proximity of each other. Due to varied nature of load curves of individual homes which in turn depend on consumer behavior provides an opportunity for energy sharing among smart homes which are equipped with renewable energy sources such as roof-top solar PV. In the proposed energy sharing scheme, the incentives are given in terms of priority to the SHs which participate in energy sharing as energy providers. This is a non-pricing based approach. Thus, to sustain energy sharing, the priority factor is used as the main driving force which encourages the SHs to share their excess energy within their neighborhood with other SHs. The SHs acting as energy providers will be rewarded in future in terms of priority when they are in need of energy. The extensive simulation results showcase the practical applicability of the proposed energy sharing mechanism.
keywords: {Smart homes;Batteries;Renewable energy sources;Games;Consumer behavior;Simulation;Game theory;energy sharing;game theory;incentive mechanism;renewable energy;smart homes},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352334&isnumber=8352140

W. Wu et al., "A novel damping strategy for low frequency oscillation suppression with MMC-type unified power flow controller," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1119-1123.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352335
Abstract: It is an inevitable problem that low frequency oscillation exists in power system, which weakens the transmission line transfer capability and threatens power system stability. Unified Power Flow Controller based on Modular Multi-Level Converter is an effective solution to power system oscillation. The main method at present is highly dependent on accurate math model, whose design process is complex and against engineering practice as well. This paper proposes a novel damping strategy, which uses reactive current variation to increase system damping ratio in seek of suppression on system oscillation. This method has advantages of good damping effect, simplified design process, and easy engineering applicability. At last, the simulation analysis based on PSCAD software verifies the effectiveness of the design.
keywords: {Damping;Torque;Oscillators;Reactive power;Voltage control;Mathematical model;Generators;MMC-UPFC;reactive power;damping control;low frequency oscillation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352335&isnumber=8352140

Z. Chedjara, A. Massoum, S. Massoum, P. Wira, A. Safa and A. Gouichiche, "A novel robust PLL algorithm applied to the control of a shunt active power filter using a self tuning filter concept," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1124-1131.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352336
Abstract: This paper presents a novel robust phase locking control scheme for active power filters namely multiple self-tuning filters phase locked loop (M-STFs-PLL). This method uses a multiple self-tuning filters in stationary reference frame to cleanly extract and separate the positive and negative sequences voltage to improve the traditional PLL under highly unbalanced and/or distorted source voltage. The resultant M-STFs-PLL conducts then to a fast, precise and robust positive sequence. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, the direct shunt active power filter control method with the proposed PLL scheme is adopted and its performance is verified by means of simulation with different supply systems.
keywords: {Electrocardiography;Phase locked loop (PLL);direct method;self-tuning filter(STF);non ideal source voltage},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352336&isnumber=8352140

K. Christopoulos, A. Raptis, C. Antonopoulos, T. Orfanoudakis and N. S. Voros, "A scalable approach to efficient house power consumption and CO2 management through fuzzy logic," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1132-1137.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352337
Abstract: Efficient residential load power management represents, on one hand, a cornerstone towards Smart City Grids while, on the other hand a multifaceted challenge. The identified interplay between multiple parameters concerning both power consumption as well as generation, call for novel design approaches such as Fuzzy Logic, machine learning and AI regarding respective algorithms. Furthermore, aiming to propose highly reliable and practical solutions, respective implementations much be undertaken and evaluated in the context of real-world prominent communication and power control infrastructures. Driven, by such observations this paper presents a complete, efficient and feasible proposal able to tackle respective requirements. Specifically, a comprehensive multimodal Fuzzy Logic Inference (FIS) design is proposed able to incorporate heterogeneous factors pertaining both to residential power consumption and generation. Additionally, proposed designed is implemented in the context of a fully functional KNX based infrastructure monitoring and controlling power consumption of a real residence. Respective performance evaluation, firstly, serve as FIS implementation validation indicating convergence between Matlab based and KNX based performance. Secondly, it highlights the benefits the end-user can anticipate using such a system. Finally, an estimated projection is attempted based on actual performance results and Europe wide statistics concerning residential power consumption as well as CO2 omissions.
keywords: {Switches;Smart grids;Fuzzy logic;Power system management;Intelligent control;Power Consumption management;Smart Grids;Fuzzy Logic;power management;modeling;simulation and control of power system;KNX;smart grid technologies;intelligent control systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352337&isnumber=8352140

U. Akram, M. Khalid and S. Shafiq, "A strategy for residential demand response management in modern electricity markets," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1138-1142.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352338
Abstract: The innovations in power electronics and the introduction of the advance high-speed information and communication technologies and sophisticated control has made the load demand of the power system more flexible and easily controllable in a smart grid paradigm. In this paper, a demand response (DR) management strategy is presented which modifies the customer load based upon the price of electricity provided by the utility company in order to decrease the electricity bill. The problem is modeled by considering the uncontrollable and controllable residential load appliances and different types of electric vehicles (EVs) and their shifting windows constraints. The optimization problem is solved using a well known optimization technique, i.e., particle swarm optimization with the aim of minimization of the cost of electricity paid by customer by shifting the loads to less pricing hours and vehicle-to-grid (V2G) operation of electric vehicles (EVs) to high pricing hours. A comparison based upon the electricity bill is presented for four scenarios, 1) system without DR strategy, 2) system with DR program that optimizes the load shift, 3) system with DR program that optimizes V2G operation only without shifting the load, and 4) system with DR program that shifts the load and optimizes V2G operation as well. It is shown that the DR strategy that optimizes the load shift and V2G operation is economical.
keywords: {Vehicle-to-grid;Pricing;Load modeling;Optimization;Electric vehicle charging;Demand response;electric vehicle;optimization},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352338&isnumber=8352140

R. Sharifi, S. H. Fathi, A. Anvari-Moghaddam, J. M. Guerrero and V. Vahidinasab, "An economic customer-oriented demand response model in electricity markets," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1149-1153.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352340
Abstract: Consumer choice theory is a branch of microeconomics. This theory relates to adjusting consumption expenditures and consumer demand curve. Consumer choice science is trying to realize the buyer's decision-making process. This science studies customer characteristics, such as behavioral criteria, to understand the consumer's need. The concept of price elasticity of demand (PED) has also been derived from this theory. In fact, the PED is the percentage of changes in the amount of demand relative to the price changes. In consumer choice theory, for each consumer according to behavioral criteria, a unique response to price changes is considered. Therefore, the consumer demand curve is a unique curve versus price changes. In the concept of PED, the elasticity investigation is performed only in a single point or over a small interval of the curve instead of the whole curve which is not suitable. Since most demand response (DR) models have been developed based on this concept, this will also be deemed as a disadvantage for them. In this paper, we propose an economic DR model based on economic theories and mathematical methods. In addition to abate the defects of price-elasticity based DR models, the proposed model has the ability to respond to the various consumers with distinct responses to price changes and can also adjust the consumer's demands according to the consumer's preferences during different periods of a day.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Elasticity;Adaptation models;Economics;Electricity supply industry;Load modeling;Sensitivity analysis;Demand-side management (DSM);price elasticity of demand (PED);economic DR model;consumer utility function;Cobb-Douglas utility function},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352340&isnumber=8352140

Q. Salem, O. Munoz and J. Xie, "An overall power flow algorithm to control the active power transfer at PCC in LV-distribution network," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1154-1159.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352341
Abstract: Power flow analysis in power system networks has been widely investigated by several methods to determine the unknown variables at each bus in the system. Moreover, many optimization functions have been integrated with the power flow methods to control the operation of some parameters in the network. In this paper, an overall power flow algorithm is performed to control the active power flow at PCC. A series VSI is connected between the main grid and the microgrid, in which its injected voltage is provided by using an optimization function so as to inject the required voltage magnitude and phase angle. The optimized series voltage will increase or decrease the PCC voltage, which will in turn change the microgrid DGs voltage. So that, the active power of every DG will also be varied since the DG control unit is provided with P/V droop characteristic. The performance of the power flow algorithm in satisfying the assigned active power reference at PCC has been verified by several case scenarios.
keywords: {Load flow;Microgrids;Optimization;Mathematical model;Voltage control;Computational modeling;Power system stability;Power flow algorithm;Optimization function;Active power control;P/V droop control;Microgrid},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352341&isnumber=8352140

N. Zope, S. I. Ali, S. Padmanaban, M. S. Bhaskar and L. Mihet-Popa, "Analysis of 132kV/33kV 15MVA power transformer dissolved gas using transport-X Kelman Kit through Duval's triangle and Roger's Ratio prediction," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1160-1164.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352342
Abstract: In this article dissolved gas in 132kV/33kV 15MVA power transformer is analyzed using the Kelman Kit (Transport-X) through Duval's triangle method and Roger's Ratio method. Under the impact of electrical, thermal and environmental stresses, the equality of mineral insulation oil deteriorates in a gradual manner, electrical failures such as hot spots and partial discharges occurs in the insulating oil. Dissolved Gas Analysis (DGA) technique detects incipient failures in the transformer. DGA is considered as most important test for insulating liquid in electrical apparatus throughout the world. In this technique, an oil sample will be taken at anytime from the transformer valve for testing the oil. This paper intends to show the gassing of oil is a more complex phenomenon. Different types of gasses causes faults like thermal, internal failures, etc in the transformer. To detect the type of fault two major methods are adopted i.e Roger's ratio method, Duval triangle method.
keywords: {Radio frequency;Transformer Oil;I32kV/33kV I5MVA power transformer;Dissolved Gas Analysis;Fault Analysis;Transport-X Kelman kit;Roger's ratio method;Duval's triangle method},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352342&isnumber=8352140

W. Eshetu, P. Sharma and C. Sharma, "ANFIS based load frequency control in an isolated micro grid," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1165-1170.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352343
Abstract: The inertia of power systems can compensate the power imbalances, which are caused by the intermittent renewable energy sources or by disturbances in load. However, it is still difficult to keep the frequency changes within its acceptable limits. With the use of vehicle to grid (V2G) technology, the electric vehicles (EVs) can work as a mobile energy storage units. In an isolated grid, these mobile energy storage units could be a vital solution for the load frequency control (LFC). This paper shows an intelligent LFC technique that is based on an adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS). An isolated wind-solar PV-micro turbine-diesel based micro grid (MG) has been considered in the paper. The performance of the proposed intelligent controller is also compared with conventional proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller and fuzzy controller design methods. The results show that ANFIS based neuro-fuzzy LFC controller have less settling time and also improve dynamic responses for the considered MG.
keywords: {Electrical engineering;Wind turbines;Vehicle-to-grid;Fuzzy control;PI control;PD control;EV;V2G;LFC;fuzzy control;PID control;ANFIS;micro grid},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352343&isnumber=8352140

P. Sharma and C. Sharma, "Automatic reactive power compensation of an isolated wind-diesel hybrid grid," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1171-1176.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352344
Abstract: The paper presents the study of reactive power control for an isolated wind-diesel hybrid grid model. The permanent-magnet synchronous generator (PMSG) is used with diesel engine set and permanent-magnet induction generator (PMIG) for wind power generation. Considering frequency is being maintained within limits by the diesel engine generator set, the AC to DC to AC converter is not required with PMSG. A mathematical approximation model for the injection of reactive power by PMSG connected with diesel engine set is developed in this paper. To maintain the voltage of the system at desired level within limits, a controlled source of reactive power is required. In this paper, the static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) is used as a reactive power compensator. Integral square error (ISE) criterion is used to obtain the optimum gain settings of the STATCOM proportional and integral (PI) controller. The dynamic responses of the system for small disturbance conditions are shown in the paper. The paper also shows the comparison of the performance of the system when synchronous generator (SG) is used instead of PMSG with diesel engine set.
keywords: {Automatic voltage control;PMIG;PMSG;wind-diesel hybrid grid;SG;STATCOM},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352344&isnumber=8352140

A. Dutta and S. Debbarma, "Contribution of electric vehicles for frequency regulation in presence of diverse power sources and transmission links," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1177-1182.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352345
Abstract: Electric vehicles (EVs) due to its immense contribution towards greenhouse emissions have become more popular in the recent years. Moreover, charging and discharging of EVs using vehicle-to-grid (V2G) network offers several ancillary services such as frequency regulation (FR) and voltage regulation (VR). This paper presents FR of deregulated power system in presence of diverse transmission links. Fractional order (FO) controller is employed for coordinated control of EVs and conventional power units. EVs with their on-board batteries are a potential candidate for FR service due to fast adjustment of charging/discharging power. Flower pollination algorithm (FPA) is further applied to acquire the optimum controller parameters for different cases. Validity of the proposed control technique is also performed extensively by varying state of charge status of EV battery and power system loading. Simulation results clearly reveal the advantage of FO regulator over conventional integer order (IO) based PID regulator.
keywords: {Frequency control;State of charge;Vehicle-to-grid;Hydraulic turbines;Mathematical model;Frequency regulation;Electric vehicles;Fractional order controller;Flower polination algorithm},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352345&isnumber=8352140

K. M. Banjar-Nahor, L. Garbuio, V. Debusschere, N. Hadjsaid, T. Pham and N. Sinisuka, "Critical clearing time transformation upon renewables integration through static converters, a case in microgrids," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1183-1188.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352346
Abstract: More and more variable renewables are interconnected into power systems through static converters. This brings challenges in evaluating the maximum duration of permissible fault, or better known as the critical clearing time. A novel strategy to assess the critical clearing time that takes static converter limitations into consideration is proposed in this article. The impact of the introduction of the new criteria is also analyzed. The simulations performed in Power Factory platform on microgrids have shown that the usage of static converters might provoke fast frequency and voltage responses and consequently might reduce the critical clearing time.
keywords: {Power system stability;Transient analysis;Synchronous machines;Batteries;Microgrids;Steady-state;Static power converters;critical clearing time;renewables;static converters},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352346&isnumber=8352140

M. Bahloul and S. K. Khadem, "Design and control of energy storage system for enhanced frequency response grid service," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1189-1194.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352347
Abstract: Nowadays, new regulations are taking place that impose to integrate more renewable energy sources (RES) to the grid. The intermittent characteristics of these uncontrollable sources have a negative impact on the grid quality and stability. On the other hand, the ancillary services (ASs) have potential role in maintaining the grid stability and balancing the frequency and the voltage at the fundamental values. Thus, AS market exhibits a great expansion in the recent years and novel regulation frameworks are also developing. Very recently in UK, the distribution network operator, National Grid (NG) have developed a novel portfolio for providing a primary active power AS known as Enhanced Frequency Response (EFR) service. In this paper, a design guideline of electrical energy storage system (ESS) for this EFR provision is given. In addition, a power management system is described to ensure the control of a hybrid energy battery-supercapacitor storage system (HESS). Simulations are carried out for both battery only energy storage system (BESS) and HESS to analyze the regulation dynamics and to compare the performances for each system.
keywords: {Batteries;Power system management;Supercapacitors;Frequency response;Power system stability;Stability analysis;Enhanced Frequency Response;battery-supercapacitor energy storage system;power management system;ancillary service},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352347&isnumber=8352140

M. Stefan, M. Faschang, S. Cejka, K. Diwold, A. Einfalt and A. Frischenschlager, "Distribution grid topology validation and identification by graph-based load profile analysis," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1195-1200.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352348
Abstract: Novel Smart Grid functions demand for reliable grid topology information. Currently, on distribution grid level, such information is only statically (i.e. configured once - e.g., in CIM or alike format) or not at all available. The static topology data may become invalid due to a switching action or grid extension. In this paper we present a Smart Grid application, which validates such a given CIM-represented grid topology on the basis of power profiles measured by grid monitoring devices. The topology is extracted as graph representation, field measurements are represented by an abstract grid model, and correlation of load profiles is calculated by a presented comparison algorithm. We demonstrate the application of the topology validation in the ASCR Smart City testbed and show its extension to a topology identification application. The two applications' field usage proves useful functions on which further Smart Grid applications will build upon.
keywords: {Topology;Correlation;Power measurement;Monitoring;Mathematical model;Smart grids;Switches;Smart grids;Substation automation;Topology Identification;Pearson correlation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352348&isnumber=8352140
B. Sen, V. K. Kanakesh, J. Soni, C. D. Rodríguez-Gallegos and S. K. Panda, "Effect of line impedance on electric spring control," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1201-1206.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352349
Abstract: The study and development of technologies to facilitate efficient operation of microgrids has recently gained momentum. The Electric Spring is one of the new power electronics based device which can smoothen power and voltage fluctuations caused by load-generation mismatch in a microgrid. Microgrid is a subsystem of the existing power system with a decentralized control and distributed structure. Therefore, its line impedance varies over a wide range. While utilizing the ES as a reactive power compensation device for voltage regulation, the nature of line impedance (inductive or resistive) of the microgrid has not been taken into consideration in the existing control of the ES. This can result in a considerable deviation from the desired performance. This paper investigates the effects of line impedance on voltage regulation operation by the ES. It is proposed that the ES control needs to be altered according to the nature of the system line impedance. This hypothesis has been validated by simulating a small scale grid connected microgrid with resistive and inductive system line impedances.
keywords: {Impedance;Microgrids;Voltage control;Springs;Inductors;Capacitors;Power demand;Electric Spring;Microgrid;Line Impedance},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352349&isnumber=8352140

B. R. Pokhrel, N. Karthikeyan, B. Bak-Jensen and J. R. Pillai, "Effect of smart meter measurements data on distribution state estimation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1207-1212.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352350
Abstract: Smart distribution grids with renewable energy based generators and demand response resources (DRR) requires accurate state estimators for real time control. Distribution grid state estimators are normally based on accumulated smart meter measurements. However, increase of measurements in the physical grid can enforce significant stress not only on the communication infrastructure but also in the control algorithms. This paper aims to propose a methodology to analyze needed real time smart meter data from low voltage distribution grids and their applicability in distribution state estimation. Different scenarios are created to observe the algorithm performance and effects on the estimation quality. The CIGRE benchmark network for low voltage distribution grids is used for simulation and analysis. This work also investigates the necessity of proper load modelling to reduce the stress due to huge amount of measurement data by utilizing them smartly via state estimation.
keywords: {Meters;State estimation;Measurement uncertainty;Smart meters;Mathematical model;Q measurement;Smart meter measurements;active distribution grid;state estimation;observability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352350&isnumber=8352140

C. Guzman, L. Rueda, G. Romero, S. Biscans, K. Agbossou and A. Cardenas, "Enabling winter behavior analysis on electrically heated residential buildings by smart sub-metering," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1213-1218.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352351
Abstract: Load monitoring emerges in the smart grids context as an important part of the backbone of management systems. A variety of new products are offered by markets adding a certain level of intelligence in load monitoring systems, many of them focusing households to verify and in some cases regulate their own consumption. However, those systems even if they are affordable, some technical lacks are present limiting their utilization in research and development activities, e.g. the accuracy, completeness, consistency, and timeliness of information. Focusing in that, this paper proposes a sub-metering prototype system that fits well for the research and development activities for residential buildings in the smart grid context. Details of the system design and experimental results are provided which confirm the validity of the proposition.
keywords: {Voltage measurement;Space heating;Buildings;Monitoring;Resistance heating;Water heating;Temperature measurement;Measurement systems;Hardware software co-design;Field programmable gate arrays;Home energy management systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352351&isnumber=8352140

M. Yousefi, A. Hajizadeh and M. Soltani, "Energy management strategies for smart home regarding uncertainties: State of the art, trends, and challenges," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1219-1225.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352352
Abstract: The advent of Smart grid and high-energy demand for electricity has provided new opportunities for energy management systems (EMSs) in a smart home (SH). Energy management strategies play a key role in performance and economy of smart homes integrating renewable energy resources, Heat Pumps (HP), and Plug-in Electrical Vehicle (PEV) energy storages. This paper presents a critical review and analysis of different energy management strategies for SH to handle the uncertainties involved in renewable energy resources, home load demands, PEV charging requirements, and household comfort. In addition, the present paper provides a comprehensive study of work on EMS, with a focus on stochastic modeling approaches and their effect on SH operations and outcomes. This review of different stochastic energy management strategies will be entirely helpful for SH development.
keywords: {Renewable energy sources;Stochastic processes;Smart homes;Batteries;Uncertainty;Smart home;Stochastic Energy Scheduling;Uncertainties;Plug-in Electrical Vehicle;Photovoltaic Array;Heat Pump},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352352&isnumber=8352140

Z. Pu et al., "Fault characteristics analysis and protection design for MMC-UPFC with high reliability," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1226-1231.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352353
Abstract: Unified Power Flow Controller based on Modular Multi-Level Converter (MMC-UPFC) is considered as the most Flexible AC Transmission System (FACTS) device, as it can control the power flow and enhance power system stability. The fault characteristics and the protection design are important for MMC-UPFC with high reliability, but relevant researches are incomplete. This paper analyzed the topology structure and working principle of MMC-UPFC, and then studied the operating characteristics under single-phase grounding fault and two-phase short circuit fault condition. Furthermore, according to the characteristics of UPFC device and different structures of the series and parallel side, the overall protection design of the MMC-UPFC device is presented. At last, the simulation analysis based on PSCAD software verified the effectiveness of the design.
keywords: {Circuit faults;Grounding;Topology;Fault currents;Switches;Voltage control;Valves;MMC-UPFC;fault characteristics;single-phase grounding fault;two-phase short circuit fault;protection design},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352353&isnumber=8352140

J. Lin, G. Sheng, Y. Gao, Y. Yan and X. Jiang, "Fault diagnosis of transformer based on KPCA and Elman neural network," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1232-1235.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352354
Abstract: Analysis of monitoring data of transformer can provide important theoretical basis for transformer fault diagnosis. In this paper, a transformer fault diagnosis method based on kernel principal component analysis (KPCA) and improved Elman neural network is proposed. Firstly, gas concentration, several commonly used ratios and seven new parameters are introduced as reference vectors. Then the main characteristic parameters extracted by KPCA algorithm are used as the input of Elman neural network to train the neural network. Finally, the test set is experimented with the trained network. The results indicate that the method in this paper compared with SVM and BP neural network has a higher diagnosis accuracy.
keywords: {Neural networks;Oil insulation;Fault diagnosis;Power transformer insulation;Feature extraction;Kernel;Transformer;KPCA;Elman Neural network;Fault diagnosis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352354&isnumber=8352140

P. Dey, M. Datta, N. Fernando and T. Senjyu, "Fault-ride-through performance improvement of a PMSG based wind energy systems via coordinated control of STATCOM," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1236-1241.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352355
Abstract: This paper presents a coordinated control which combines pitch angle of a wind turbine, flux control of permanent magnet synchronous generator (PMSG) and reactive power control of grid to enhance the low voltage ride through (LVRT) capability of PMSG based variable speed wind energy conversion system (WECS). The design process of controller parameters and the stability of proposed control strategy have been analysed. In this strategy, pitch angle controller is modified to adjust the pitch for power smoothing as well as LVRT during variable wind speed and grid fault respectively. Flux weakening controller is used to reduce the flux linkages of PMSG by supplying negative field regulating current to reduce the DC link overvoltage during grid voltage dips. Additionally, static compensator (STATCOM) is used to provide reactive power support during grid fault. Extensive simulations of proposed method have been carried out under different cases. The performance of the proposed controller is validated by time series simulation. The results are compared with Braking chopper (BC) based conventional control for verification.
keywords: {Transfer functions;Wind turbines;Pulse width modulation;Capacitors;Rotors;Automatic voltage control;Low voltage ride through;pitch angle;flux weakening;grid fault;stability;STATCOM},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352355&isnumber=8352140

M. Bienholz and G. Griepentrog, "Influences on resonances between EMI filter capacitors and the utility grid," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1242-1247.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352356
Abstract: The differential mode parallel resonance between capacitors of an EMI filter with the inductance of the utility grid is discussed as well as the filters internal common mode resonance. The possibility to excite this resonance with another power electronic circuit is numerically evaluated in frequency domain simulation. The order of magnitude of the generated capacitor current is sufficient to increase the capacitors temperature suggesting accelerated deterioration or even failure of those capacitors.
keywords: {Impedance;Resonant frequency;Capacitors;Capacitance;Inductors;Electromagnetic interference;Power electronics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352356&isnumber=8352140

G. Gruosso, R. S. Netto, P. Maffezzoni, Z. Zhang and L. Daniel, "Low voltage electrical distribution network analysis under load variation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1248-1253.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352357
Abstract: Electricity planning, requires considering several load-changing scenarios. This is due to the fact that loads are becoming more and more unpredictable, as a result of the adoption of new technologies, such as vehicles charging or air conditioning equipment, and of storage systems, like renewable energy sources, that impact on the capacity to deliver power and new services. The purpose of this work is to illustrate an effective methodology to simulate load uncertainty and thus to predict the effect that such variations may have on network electrical quality. To this aim, a low voltage network is considered that is terminated with 1-phase loads. Such an arrangement can introduce voltage unbalance and variations that can stress the network and take it far from the standard limits. We thus describe a flexible uncertainty-aware simulation framework of the power network with conventional loads (residential and commercial ones).
keywords: {Europe;Low voltage;Uncertainty;Chaos},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352357&isnumber=8352140

Q. Cossart, F. Colas and X. Kestelyn, "Model reduction of converters for the analysis of 100% power electronics transmission systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1254-1259.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352358
Abstract: Because of the fast development of wind and solar photovoltaic power plants, as well as the multiplication of high voltage direct current links, the analysis and simulation of large transmission systems with a high penetration of power electronic converters have become necessary. In this situation, reduced models of converters are needed to make the simulation faster and the stability analysis more straightforward. These reduced models need to be accurate enough, depending on the needed accuracy, and they have to keep the physical structure of the converter full model to be easily implemented on classical analysis software. A structure-preserving method to reduce the state order of a grid forming converter model is presented here. It is based on a modal analysis to remove the fastest poles of the system while keeping the slowest almost unchanged.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions;Analytical models;Adaptation models;Reactive power;Current control;Power electronics;model order reduction;power system simulation;power electronics converters;stability analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352358&isnumber=8352140

D. F. Hakam, R. E. Macatangay and D. F. Hakam, "Optimising Indonesia's electricity market structure: Evidence of Sumatra and Java-Bali power system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1266-1271.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352360
Abstract: This research focuses on modelling large-scale power system using DC load flow approach in Indonesia electricity market which consists of two primary power system, i.e. Java-Bali and Sumatra power system. This study adopts the 26 nodes stylised model for Java-Bali power system and eight nodes stylized model for Sumatra power system, by incorporating generation, transmission and power system stability constraint. The study in this paper is the first electricity market modelling to study Java-Bali and Sumatra power system using perfect competition and oligopoly strategic behaviour. This paper simulates the effect of electricity market restructuring in power generation market in Indonesia power system. By using market modelling, i.e. perfect competition and Cournot oligopoly market, this research determines the optimal market structure, effective generation mix in the generation companies, and an effective number of the competitive electricity market. This preventive approach contributes to the current literature in electricity market modelling and market power studies, which is essential for Indonesia, when and if the market restructuring occurs.
keywords: {DC load flow;perfect competition;Cournot;market power;Java-Bali;Sumatra},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352360&isnumber=8352140

H. Weber, P. Baskar and N. Ahmed, "Power system control with renewable sources, storages and power electronic converters," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1272-1278.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352361
Abstract: In the future, the electrical power supply networks will be transformed from conventional power plant structures with inertia to a complete inertia independent system with storages for different generation speed together with power electronic converters. In this paper, a method is proposed to control the electrical power distribution by these new power plants. All the control principles necessary involving spinning reserve, primary control and secondary control depending on frequency are substituted by a comprehensive angle control of the nodal voltages in the transmission and distribution network. It is observed that whenever the power requirement of the loads increase, the slacks generate more power with the slack power station closest to the point of increasing consumption automatically producing the most power. However, this can lead to a dilemma because one slack cannot have unlimited generation capability. Hence, the paper also depicts the system response when one slack reaches its maximum power generation limit.
keywords: {Manganese;converters and storage;PQ node;PV node;re-dispatch reduction;slack;voltage angle control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352361&isnumber=8352140

S. S. Refaat, H. Abu-Rub, M. Trabelsi and A. Mohamed, "Reliability evaluation of smart grid system with large penetration of distributed energy resources," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1279-1284.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352362
Abstract: The distribution system is a vital link between the bulk electricity network and its customers. Reliability is a crucial element in the design and operation of smart grid distributed system. Reliability evaluation in a distribution system is an important matter for both utilities and customers. The penetration level of distributed energy resources is increasing significantly and it is expected to grow more over the next years. Therefore, this paper presents a distribution system reliability assessment of smart grid with the presence of high penetration of renewable energy resources. Reliability evaluation of distribution networks in smart grid for both operating modes (grid-connected and islanded) will be based on load point indices and system reliability indices. The IEEE 30-bus network with large-scale PV, and gas turbines will be used for the simulations. This simulation study will show that the integration of distributed energy resources can improve the reliability indices of the distribution networks in smart grid.
keywords: {Reliability;Nickel;Smart grids;Energy resources;Reliability Evaluation;Smart Grid;Distributed Energy Resources},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352362&isnumber=8352140

T. Yamada, K. Suzuki and C. Ninagawa, "Scalability analysis of aggregation web services for smart grid fast automated demand response," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1285-1289.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352363
Abstract: In this paper, we modeled stochastic wide-area communication delays in a fast automated demand response (FastADR) system using an M/M/1 queuing system. By considering a very large number of communication gateways in buildings spread over a wide area, the scalability of the aggregation communication performance was estimated by the M/M/1 transient analysis. The validity of our analysis model was confirmed in a laboratory experiment with realistic wide-area communication emulation equipment. Using the parameters from the experiment, expected aggregation service communication times were analyzed theoretically, including a large-scale FastADR system consisting of 1,000 buildings. Our scalability analysis has shown that it is necessary to divide the total system into 25 aggregation subsystems with each 40 building gateways to realize the expected aggregation Web service delay of less than 30 seconds.
keywords: {Web services;Servers;Delays;Logic gates;Buildings;Scalability;smart grid;demand response;office building;air-conditioning;IEEEI888;OpenADR;M/M/1;queueing system},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352363&isnumber=8352140

M. Fahim, M. E. Hassan and M. B. E. Najjar, "Single phase load balancing in a three phase system at distribution and unit level," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1297-1301.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352365
Abstract: A major concern in modern electricity is power quality and reliability of the supplied electricity. With the development of new technologies, the continuous changes in consumption trends, and the presence of unknown sources, the act of load balancing at distribution level becomes more complex and much needed. One of the best methods to achieve balance is finding the optimal reconfiguration. While most literature on the topic focuses on reducing power losses through network reconfiguration at feeder level, the focus of this paper is on consumer load rearrangement at the installation level of the unit itself. These changes are made in order to achieve balance between the phases and guarantee reduction of the electric bill. Furthermore, balancing has an effect on fuel consumption reduction resulting in positive effect on the environment. Automatic balancing is based on a switching technique following certain constraints and equations. This method can be applied on both feeders and the unit level and is guaranteed to give better results when compared to other techniques. The percentage of unbalance dropped below 1 % using phase commitment algorithm reaching 0.329% and 0.0227% for 15 and 150 loads testing systems, respectively. Also, the neutral current and the difference between the phases is minimal compared to other techniques. The study is conducted on real data for different types of distribution loads.
keywords: {Power systems;Conferences;Optimization;High definition video;Sustainable development;Technological innovation;Neural networks;Fuzzy Logic;Load Balancer;Optimization;Rearrangement;Phase Commitment},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352365&isnumber=8352140

M. A. Abdulgalil, M. N. Khater, M. Khalid and F. Alisamail, "Sizing of energy storage systems to enhance microgrid reliability," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1302-1307.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352366
Abstract: Optimal sizing and operation of an energy storage system is important for economical and operational reasons. Oversized energy storage systems introduce high capital costs while undersized energy storage systems cannot satisfy the power demand in a microgrid. In addition, the reliability of the microgrid system must be high enough to perform the intended function during the specified time-period at the minimum cost. An optimal sized energy storage system that is economical and effectively operational with high reliability will be reached through an optimization technique which is the dynamic programming (DP) method. Suggestions to enhance the reliability of microgrids including energy storage systems are proposed as well as the effects of energy storage systems on the reliability of microgrids. This research aims to improve the technology of renewable sources and microgrids which will result in a greener environment and a more economic society.
keywords: {Energy storage;Microgrids;Reliability;Power system reliability;Optimization;Investment;Energy storage systems;microgrids;residential load;commercial load},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352366&isnumber=8352140

Y. Aoki, H. Ito, C. Ninagawa and J. Morikawa, "Smart grid real-time pricing optimization control with simulated annealing algorithm for office building air-conditioning facilities," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1308-1313.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352367
Abstract: Real-time pricing is one of the primary features of the future smart grid. From the demand side's point of view, optimization of load management conforming to the rapid power price changes will be necessary. This study uses simulated annealing optimization with an evaluation function consisting of power cost and room temperature comfort terms for an advanced building energy management system for multi-unit-type air-conditioning facilities in a commercial building. An original air-conditioner emulating model is developed and used to conduct simulation experiments for a range of different electricity pricing patterns. The simulation has shown that our optimization method reduce the electricity cost by 37% with the room temperature comfort degradation by 10% as compared to the normal operation in an example case of electricity price rate change by a factor of 1/3 to 10/3 in every 10 minutes.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Buildings;Optimization;Atmospheric modeling;Real-time systems;Power demand;Temperature sensors;Real-time pricing;Demand response;Smart grid;Office building;Air-conditioning},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352367&isnumber=8352140

S. Houidi, F. Auger, H. Ben Attia Sethom, L. Miègeville, D. Fourer and X. Jiang, "Statistical assessment of abrupt change detectors for non-intrusive load monitoring," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1314-1319.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352368
Abstract: Non-Intrusive Load Monitoring (NILM) is the process of monitoring Home Electrical Appliances (HEAs) from voltage and current measurements at the Point of Common Coupling (PCC). The resulting information can be useful to raise greater awareness among customers about their HEAs' usage for a more efficient energy behaviour. NILM methods can be roughly categorized into event-based and non event-based approaches, depending on whether or not they rely on the detection of HEAs' significant state transitions (e.g. On/Off or state change). In this paper, we focus on event-based methods and describe a test bench to statistically assess three abrupt change detectors. Then, we define several evaluation metrics for judging on performance and quality of the detection algorithms in order to carry out a comparison. Finally, the three abrupt change detectors are applied to real data coming from a scenario of HEAs switched on and off by hand.
keywords: {Abrupt change detection;Statistical assessment;Non Intrusive Load Monitoring (NILM);Home Electrical Appliances (HEAs)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352368&isnumber=8352140

P. C. Papageorgiou, A. T. Alexandridis and C. Dikaiakos, "Voltage and power regulators guaranteeing stability of dc-links between DERs and the electricity grid," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1320-1325.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352369
Abstract: An alternative control design for dc-links used to connect distributed energy resources (DERs) with the main power grid, is proposed and studied for its stability. As DERs are considered to be weak, unpredictable power sources, ac voltage regulation is applied at the side of DER connection while at the grid side, dc voltage and reactive power control is implemented. The challenging issue of achieving these tasks effectively through the design of a rather simple control scheme is examined in this paper. While the traditionally proposed techniques involve parameter-dependent controllers in order to make possible simple linear designs, in this paper, the proposed controllers are clearly simpler ones, parameter-free of proportional-integral (PI) type, but require a more complicated and advanced nonlinear analysis. To that end, incorporating the controllers into the nonlinear dc-link model, the closed-loop system is analyzed by applying advanced Lyapunov techniques combined with input to state stability notions. As shown in the paper, stability and convergence to the equilibrium is guaranteed while the extended simulations presented, fully verify the theoretical analysis.
keywords: {Power system stability;Stability analysis;Voltage control;Power conversion;Closed loop systems;Analytical models;VSC-based HVDC control;PI controllers;nonlinear analysis;Lyapunov-based techniques},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352369&isnumber=8352140

R. N. Gore and S. P. Valsan, "Wireless communication technologies for smart grid (WAMS) deployment," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1326-1331.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352370
Abstract: Highly flexible, secured and bi-directional communication infrastructure for power system data exchange is the stepping stone for the success of smart grid vision. Traditionally, wired communication is the first choice for monitoring, protection and control systems. With advent in communication technologies, the wireless technologies have also emerged as potential contender for data communication in various industrial applications. Wireless technologies have distinct advantages over wired in terms of higher mobility, lower installation cost and faster deployment among others. The deployment of wireless technologies for monitoring and control systems of Smart Grid namely WAMS has been largely unexploited area. This paper devises a systematic approach that identifies the communication requirements of WAMS, defines the capability of various wireless technologies such as Wireless LAN (WLAN), Wi-Max, Wi-Fi, GSM, GPRS etc. based on performance criteria and selects the potential wireless communication technologies for WAMS based on closest match. The WAMS communication requirement specifications have been arrived based on Indian Smart Grid case studies. The paper also discusses the challenges and hence opportunities associated with implementation of wireless technologies for Smart Grid.
keywords: {Wireless communication;Phasor measurement units;Smart grids;Bandwidth;Monitoring;Communication system security;Wide area measurements;Smart Grid;Wide Area Monitoring Systems (WAMS);Phasor Data Concentrator (PDC);Phasor Measurement Unit (PMU);Synchrophasors;Wireless Communication Technologies;GSM;GPRS;ZigBee;WiMAX;Wi-Fi;Bluetooth;ZigBee;WLAN;IEEE 802.11;IEEE 802.15;IEEE 802.16;IEEE 802.20},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352370&isnumber=8352140

"TT sensors, actuators and micro-nanotechnology," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1332-1334.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352371
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352371&isnumber=8352140

R. Laref, E. Losson, A. Sava, K. Adjallah and M. Siadat, "A comparison between SVM and PLS for E-nose based gas concentration monitoring," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1335-1339.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352372
Abstract: The present paper deals with gas concentration monitoring based on an electronic nose. The proposed approach investigates two regression methods for gas concentration estimation: the first is the most used in gas quantification with electronic nose and known as the partial least squares (PLS) and the second, known as the support vector machine (SVM) regression, is recently used by the electronic nose community. Data used in this work are collected using an E-nose device developed in our laboratory and responding to various concentrations of pine essential oil vapours. The comparison between the two regression methods studied in this paper is related to the accuracy, the universality as well as the number of samples needed for learning. The results are analyzed in order to select the more suitable prediction model for gas concentration estimation.
keywords: {Support vector machines;Gas detectors;Kernel;Prediction algorithms;Complexity theory;Monitoring;gas sensors;regression methods;continuous monitoring;gas quantification},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352372&isnumber=8352140

S. Habbachi, M. Sayadi, F. Fnaiech, N. Rezzoug, P. Gorce and M. Benbouzid, "Estimation of IMU orientation using linear Kalman Filter based on correntropy criterion," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1340-1344.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352373
Abstract: Human motion is an important issue in various medical analyses. In this paper, the application of interest is estimating the orientation of the wrist in indoor and outdoor activities using low cost Inertial Measurement Sensor IMU. We present an orientation estimation using Kalman Filter based on Correntropy Criterion (KFCC). The proposed method uses only the acceleration data in the aim to reduce the computing load with accurate orientation estimation. Optical measurement system has been used to benchmark the performance of the proposed method. Moreover, the KFCC is evaluated in indoor and outdoor activities with static and dynamic motion conditions. The proposed method proves its efficiency and reliability against existing methods.
keywords: {Kalman filters;Mathematical model;Estimation;Quaternions;Accelerometers;Acceleration;Covariance matrices;sensor;Kalman filter;correntropy criterion;MEMS;orientation;human motion},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352373&isnumber=8352140

P. Kheirkhahan, "FAT-based robust adaptive control of optical micro electro mechanical system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1345-1349.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352374
Abstract: This paper is concerned with the problem of designing a FAT-based robust adaptive control strategy for optical micro electro mechanical system (MEMS). Uncertainties including system parameter variations, external disturbance, and un-modeled dynamics are considered in control design procedure. The uncertainties firstly represented by finite linear combinations of orthonormal basis function with some unknown constant weighting vectors. Appropriate update laws for the weighting vectors are then adjusted using the Lyapunov method so that uniformly ultimately bounded (UUB) stability of the output error can be proved as long as a sufficient number of basis functions are used. The proposed control strategy is simple, and less computational that is suitable for practical implementation. Simulation results demonstrate high performance of the proposed control schemes.
keywords: {Micromechanical devices;Optical switches;Robustness;Adaptive control;Adaptive optics;Optical sensors;Uncertainty;MEMS;Function approximation technique;Robust adaptive control;Fourier series},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352374&isnumber=8352140

A. Maalaoui et al., "Towards miniaturized pH sensor based on carbon nanotubes assembled by DEP on titanium electrodes?," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1350-1354.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352375
Abstract: In this paper, the pH response of a chemiresistor based on single walled carbon nanotubes (SWNT) was studied. SWNT functionalized with carboxylic groups (COOH-SWNT) were assembled by dielectrophoresis (DEP) between titanium electrodes. Current-voltage I (V) characteristics show that the device conductance decreases as the solution pH increases. DEP enabled to fabricate micronic size structures with low amounts of carbon nanotubes by comparison with SWNT dense films. These structures yielded responses to pH variations.
keywords: {Electrodes;Titanium;Carbon nanotubes;Dielectrophoresis;Scanning electron microscopy;Electric fields;Probes;Single walled carbon nanotubes;pH sensing;Dielectrophoresis;titanium},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352375&isnumber=8352140

"TT cloud computing, big data and software engineering," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1355-1356.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352376
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352376&isnumber=8352140

C. M. Carbery, R. Woods and A. H. Marshall, "A Bayesian network based learning system for modelling faults in large-scale manufacturing," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1357-1362.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352377
Abstract: Manufacturing companies can benefit from the early prediction and detection of failures to improve their product yield and reduce system faults through advanced data analytics. Whilst an abundance of data on their processing systems exist, they face difficulties in using it to gain insights to improve their systems. Bayesian networks (BNs) are considered here for diagnosing and predicting faults in a large manufacturing dataset from Bosch. Whilst BN structure learning has been performed traditionally on smaller sized data, this work demonstrates the ability to learn an appropriate BN structure for a large dataset with little information on the variables, for the first time. This paper also demonstrates a new framework for creating an appropriate probabilistic model for the Bosch dataset through the selection of statistically important variables on the response; this is then used to create a BN network which can be used to answer probabilistic queries and classify products based on changes in the sensor values in the production process.
keywords: {Data models;Manufacturing;Predictive models;Production;Computational modeling;Companies;Feature extraction},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352377&isnumber=8352140

L. Vegh, "Cyber-physical systems security through multi-factor authentication and data analytics," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1369-1374.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352379
Abstract: We are living in a society where technology is present everywhere we go. We are striving towards smart homes, smart cities, Internet of Things, Internet of Everything. Not so long ago, a password was all you needed for secure authentication. Nowadays, even the most complicated passwords are not considered enough. Multi-factor authentication is gaining more and more terrain. Complex system may also require more than one solution for real, strong security. The present paper proposes a framework based with MFA as a basis for access control and data analytics. Events within a cyber-physical system are processed and analyzed in an attempt to detect, prevent and mitigate possible attacks.
keywords: {Authentication;Data analysis;Password;Cyber-physical systems;Internet of Things;Multi-factor authentication;cyber-physical systems;multi-factor authentication;data analytics;event processing;internet of things},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352379&isnumber=8352140

H. Nishi, "Information and communication platform for providing smart community services: System implementation and use case in Saitama city," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1375-1380.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352380
Abstract: Smart communities, smart cities, smart towns, and similar smart terminologies are trending recently, along with the Internet of Things (IoT) and the Cloud, as popular new information and communication technologies (ICTs). This paper proposes a synergistic solution to urbanization problems from a technological perspective that is beneficial both to residents and to local government. Case studies of a smart community implementation in Saitama city are also provided, from the viewpoint of integrated smart infrastructure services.
keywords: {Smart cities;Edge computing;Handheld computers;Operating systems;Smart Community;Smart City;Edge Computing;Fog Computing;IoT;Smart Community Information Platform},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352380&isnumber=8352140

S. Dong, M. Chen, L. Peng and H. Li, "Parking rank: A novel method of parking lots sorting and recommendation based on public information," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1381-1386.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352381
Abstract: Nowadays, it's difficult to find available parking spaces in big cities within China due to the rapid growth of the vehicles. Parking guidance system(PGS) would play an important role to reduce the time spent on looking for parking spaces. An intuitional idea is to collect the real-time occupancy information of city-wide parking lots and guide the vehicles to the proper one on demands. But the idea is hardly implemented practically because of the huge financial and time costs on linking all city-wide parking lots in early deployment stage. Unlike the expensive real-time data, the public information of parking lots is easily obtained with little costs. What if we dig these free public data and use them in parking recommendation? Inspired by the classic Page rank algorithm used in web searching, this paper propose a novel method, named Parking rank, to sort the parking lots based on the public information totally, such as price, location, total spaces, etc. And a driving-cost sensitive recommendation method is presented in this paper. The simulation shows, when working with the Parking rank algorithm, the recommendation algorithm can help vehicles find the proper parking lots efficiently and reasonably, even in the urban district lack of any real-time information. In fact, Parking rank algorithm can be used as pre-processing of static ranking of city-wide parking lots, and can work with other recommendation algorithm related to real-time occupancy information, or work alone if there is only the public information about parking lots.
keywords: {Real-time systems;Roads;Space vehicles;Urban areas;Web search;Government;Data mining;Parking guidance system;parking lots ranking;parking lots recommendation;driving-cost sensitive guidance;graph calculation;data digging},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352381&isnumber=8352140

"TT electronic systems on chip and embedded control," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1387-1388.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352382
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352382&isnumber=8352140

Y. Harada, H. Ishikawa, M. Yoo and T. Yokoyama, "A distributed multicore real-time operating system family based on aspect-oriented programming," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1389-1394.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352383
Abstract: The paper presents a method to build a distributed multicore real-time operating system (RTOS) family for embedded control systems using aspect-oriented programming (AOP). We extend a C-based AOP language to represent template aspects for efficient definition of aspects and then define aspects to weave mechanisms for inter-core and inter-node system calls into an open source RTOS. By using the aspects, we can build various members of the RTOS family without directly modifying the original source code. This improves the maintainability of the source code of the RTOS family. The evaluation results show that the overhead of AOP is practically small enough.
keywords: {Task analysis;Multicore processing;Control systems;Writing;Operating systems;Programming;Weaving},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352383&isnumber=8352140

K. Du, S. Domas and M. Lenczner, "A solution to overcome some limitations of SDF based models," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1395-1400.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352384
Abstract: For computer-aided hardware design, models are usually used to evaluate the designed systems. But there is still a gap between models and their efficient implementations on a real architecture, like FPGAs. For example, some model characteristics may lead to a waste of resources, which can even make a design infeasible. In this paper, we focus on how to overcome some limitations of Static Data Flow based models, especially the version with Access Patterns (SDF-AP). We call the solution the “stretchable patterns”. It shares some basic principles with SDF-AP model but with other semantics and goals. For example, our model allows to change the characteristics of a source stream that feeds a graph of actors without using extra buffers or even causing an incorrect processing. It greatly simplifies a real implementation when the source is in fact a peripheral that operates at different frequencies. It also spares a lot of logical resources when the target architecture is a FPGA. After the presentation about SDF-AP limitations, this paper summarizes some fundamental notions of our model, and a realistic example is given to point out its advantages over SDF-AP.
keywords: {Clocks;Field programmable gate arrays;Computational modeling;Data models;Production;Delays;IP networks;SDF-AP;FPGA;model based design;static scheduling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352384&isnumber=8352140

Z. E. Kaya, S. B. Tekin and S. Kalem, "Design of an FPGA-based RRAM parameter measurement platform," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1407-1411.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352386
Abstract: Flash memory has been the dominant technology in non-volatile memory market for the last couple of decades. Along with down-scaling in the CMOS manufacturing process, industry and academia started to evaluate the use of alternative memory cell architectures so that the integration problems and the performance degradation seen in Flash memories can be overcome. Resistive Random-Access Memory (RRAM) technology has emerged as a promising option for manufacturing larger memory arrays in a smaller area and with higher performance. There are multiple types of RRAM memory cell architectures. HfO2-based memory cells are a type of oxide based RRAM memory cell architectures which rely on the resistance change of a dielectric material. In this work, an FPGA-based test platform which is designed to test 4Kbit RRAM samples is presented. The proposed system differs from other RRAM measurement platforms by its simplicity and the independency from a more sophisticated carrier module. The platform also allows development of security primitives which can benefit from the intrinsic characteristics of HfO2-based RRAM arrays.
keywords: {Computer architecture;Microprocessors;Electrical resistance measurement;Hardware;Nonvolatile memory;Voltage measurement;Resistance;Non-volatile memory;Resistive RAM;RRAM;eNVM;NVM;HfO2;Security primitives},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352386&isnumber=8352140

M. F. Tolba, W. S. Sayed, A. G. Radwan and S. K. Abd-El-Hafiz, "FPGA realization of speech encryption based on modified chaotic logistic map," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1412-1417.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352387
Abstract: This paper presents an FPGA design and implementation of a chaotic speech encryption and decryption system based on bit permutations. Different encryption schemes are realized and compared. In addition, various testing methods including entropy, mean squared error, and correlation coefficients are used to analyze the efficiency of the system. The techniques for area and delay minimization are used. Carry look-ahead adder, multi-operand adder and booth multiplier are used to improve the performance of the encryption schemes design. A comparison between the different encryption architectures and the state of the art is introduced. The results demonstrate the good security of the proposed systems, which enables their utilization in speech telecommunication. The designs have been simulated using Xilinx ISE 14.7 and realized on FPGA Xilinx virtex-5 xc5lx50T. A throughput of 7.9 Gbit/sec for bit permutation design, 2.6 Gbit/sec for bit permutation and chaotic modified logistic map is achieved compared with 1.1 Gbit/sec and 1.49 Gbit/sec for previous work.
keywords: {Encryption;Field programmable gate arrays;Hardware;Logistics;Ciphers;Histograms;FPGA;Speech Encryption;Chaos;Logistic map;Bit Permutation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352387&isnumber=8352140

M. Elnawawy, A. Farhan, A. Mohamed, A. Sagahyroon and L. Romdhane, "FPGA-based gait rehabilitation system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1418-1423.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352388
Abstract: In this paper, we present a simple and cost-efficient alternative to traditional rehabilitation approaches. The system uses Body Weight Supported Treadmill Training (BWSTT) technique to allow patients to move their legs freely while walking on a treadmill. Using an FPGA-based design, which uses quadrature encoders and motors, we explored two modes of operation: passive and active. During the passive mode, the patient is supported using the BWSTT and the legs are manually moved to determine the exact gait pattern. The different leg positions are captured using encoders. The readings are fed to a MATLAB computational model, which determines the desired gait pattern that would facilitate the training of the patients' legs. Next, during the active mode, the patients' legs are connected to the motors using cables, which induce a motion similar to the one captured in the passive mode. In essence, these motors are controlled through the FPGA to change the lengths of the cables in a way to reproduce the desired motion. The system is implemented and tested with promising results.
keywords: {Legged locomotion;Field programmable gate arrays;DC motors;Pulleys;Matlab;Mathematical model;Hardware;Paralysis;FPGA;Encoders;Motors;Gait},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352388&isnumber=8352140

B. Wu, N. Tan, S. Zhong, C. Men and S. Huang, "High-accuracy low-power energy metering chip without external crystal," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1424-1429.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352389
Abstract: This paper presents an innovative low-power energy metering chip without external crystal clock. By extracting the information of the serial control interface with the external host MCU, the chip is able to calibrate the internal RC clock to achieve active and reactive energy metering accuracy of 0.1% with a dynamic range of 5000:1. Also by using interpolation, the chip realizes high - accuracy phase measurement without much power dissipation penalty. The power dissipation of the chip is the lowest compared to all competing products. The chip can be used in both single-phase and poly-phase energy meters. It is currently in production.
keywords: {High definition video;energy metering;low power;active energy;reactive energy},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352389&isnumber=8352140

K. KrishneGowda, R. Kraemer, A. C. Wolf and E. R. Bammidi, "High-speed channel equalization scheme for 100 Gbps system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1430-1435.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352390
Abstract: In the terahertz frequency range, there is an abundance of bandwidth (25GHz ∼ 50 GHz) available to achieve ultra-high-speed wireless communication and enabling data rates up to 100 Gbps. We choose Parallel Sequence Spread Spectrum (PSSS) as an analog friendly modulation and coding scheme that allows for an efficient mixed-signal implementation of a 100 Gbps wireless communication system. We have completed measurements using a 240 GHz RF Millilink front end combined with PSSS as baseband modulation scheme and evaluated channel estimates. In this paper, a high-speed channel equalization algorithm was designed and implemented on an FPGA as well as an ASIC. One of the main operations in performing channel equalization is to evaluate discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of channel estimates. This work also examines the multidimensional DFT decomposition theory which is the transformation of a one dimensional DFT into two-dimensional DFT, whereby the index mapping is done using the Chinese remainder theorem. We have modified the prime factor algorithm (PFA) to perform a complex DFT on channel estimate samples. PFA decomposes a long transform DFT into several short transforms DFTs which are carried out using a minimal amount of multiplications. By skipping the cumbersome process of evaluating twiddle factors, the result is a very suitable architecture for high-speed design. We have designed and implemented a high-speed channel equalization on a Vitrex Ultrascale FPGA running at 166.67 MHz with a low latency of only one clock cycle. We have also synthesized our design using the Synopsis DC Ultra tool with 40 nm NanGate open cell libraries. The design required 0.28 mm2 area, 21 mW power and operates on a clock frequency of 158 MHz.
keywords: {Discrete Fourier transforms;Channel estimation;Field programmable gate arrays;Signal processing algorithms;Radio frequency;Clocks;Time-domain analysis;100Gbps;Digital ASIC;FPGA;channel equalization;spread-spectrum modulation;PSSS;PHY Layer},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352390&isnumber=8352140

F. Sarrafin-Ardebili, J. -C. Crébier and B. Allard, "Quad driver for GaN transistors based dual active bridge with capacitive coupling," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1436-1441.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352391
Abstract: The four-transistor full bridge is an elementary building block of many converters. Besides Gallium-Nitride transistors are promoted for their capability of high switching frequency along with low losses. The transistors' fast operation enables a reduction in the size of the passive components in a converter. High switching frequency requires a dedicated gate driver to achieve the synchronous operation of the GaN transistors in a full bridge. In this perspective a quad gate driver is presented to achieve synchronicity over four GaN transistors switching in low voltage applications (40 V) like photovoltaic market. Moreover the driver enables diode-less operation with adequate gate voltage during free wheeling phase. The driver is fabricated using a high temperature silicon-on-insulator 0.18μm CMOS technology for 200° C ambient temperature. The driver architecture and operation are described as well as experiments up to 200° C. A good agreement is observed between simulation and experiment. Matching between the four gate channel operation is in the 100 ps range. The propagation delay is better than 18 ns for operation at 1 MHz and a consumption of 12 mW. A peak current of 1.33 A is available on all four gate channel outputs.
keywords: {Transistors;Gallium nitride;Bridge circuits;Logic gates;Capacitors;Transient analysis;Power supplies;CMOS SOI;gate driver;Gallium-Nitride transistors;synchronous operation;high temperature;dual active bridge},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352391&isnumber=8352140

F. Mauroner and M. Baunach, "Remote instruction call: An RPC approach on instructions for embedded multi-core systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1442-1446.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352392
Abstract: Remote Procedure Calls (RPCs) are a well-known approach on the software layer, but not on the hardware layer. In this paper, we present, to the best of our knowledge, the first Remote Instruction Call (RIC) approach, which supports the execution of an instruction in another Central Processing Unit (CPU). This leads to an instruction execution in a different address room. RIC can perform some operations that are otherwise only possible with a memory access into another CPU's address room. With RIC no synchronization is required, what may avoid performance penalties as in common approaches. In this work, we present the idea of RIC, an implementation into the mosartMCU project, and the performance evaluation, which is implemented in a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA). We discuss some potential improvements and extensions, which may make this work the base for future works.
keywords: {Task analysis;Hardware;Registers;Field programmable gate arrays;Fabrics;Software;Real-time systems;Embedded Systems;Multi-Core;Remote Instruction Call;FPGA implementation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352392&isnumber=8352140

D. Tormo, R. Vidal-Albalate, L. Idkhajine, E. Monmasson and R. Blasco-Gimenez, "Study of System-on-Chip devices to implement embedded real-time simulators of modular multi-level converters using high-level synthesis tools," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1447-1452.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352393
Abstract: System-on-Chip (SoC) devices combine powerful general purpose processors, a Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) and other peripherals which make them very convenient for controlling and monitoring a complete system. These characteristics make them very suitable to implement Embedded Real-Time Simulators (ERTS), which provide interesting and powerful functionalities (such as observers, parameter estimation, diagnostic, health monitoring, etc.) but increasing significantly the complexity of the controller. The main drawback of these devices is that control engineers are not particularly familiarized with FPGA programming, which need extensive expertise in order to code these highly sophisticated algorithms using Hardware Description Languages (HDL). Notwithstanding, there exist High-Level Synthesis (HLS) tools which allow to program these devices using more generic programming languages such as C, C++ and SystemC. This paper evaluates SoC devices to implement several versions of a Modular Multi-Level Converter (MMC) using HLS tools. An improved simplified model of the converter which includes the modulation, the voltage balancing algorithm, and the circulating current control keeping record of every sub-module (SM) capacitor voltage. The MMC model will be evaluated changing the number of SM from 6 to 700 per phase, and using three different formats for the variables and parameters: 64-bit floating-point, 32-bit floating-point, and 32-bit fixed-point variables. The different versions of the ERTS will be compared in terms of computational power, area utilization and precision.
keywords: {Computational modeling;Capacitors;Integrated circuit modeling;Tools;Hardware;Insulated gate bipolar transistors;Field programmable gate arrays;System-on-Chip (SoC);High-Level Synthesis (HLS);Zynq;Embedded Real-Time Simulator (ERTS);Modular Multi-level Converter (MMC)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352393&isnumber=8352140

F. Mauroner and M. Baunach, "Task priority aware SoC-bus for embedded systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1453-1458.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352394
Abstract: System-on-a-Chip (SoC)-buses are designed to communicate from masters to slaves. In a multi-master system, the masters combat for accessing the slaves. In the past, different arbitration algorithms have been invented to grant access to the slaves. However, these algorithms are not aware of the currently running task's priority that wants to access the slaves; thus, a lower prioritized task could access the slave first. Other solutions with priority awareness use additional wires and support only a few priority levels that cannot be mapped from a task priority. In this paper, we present a SoC-bus that is suitable for hard real-time systems, where the highest combating prioritized task immediately gets access to the addressed slave. The lower prioritized tasks are stalled, what is managed by the interconnect logic. We implemented our proposed approach into a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) and we show the required hardware resource consumption. Further, we demonstrate the considerations of the task priorities in a use case scenario.
keywords: {Task analysis;Real-time systems;Protocols;Registers;Field programmable gate arrays;Wires;Time division multiple access;Embedded systems;Multi-Core;SoC-Bus;Priority-Awareness;FPGA implementation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352394&isnumber=8352140

"TT signal and image processing and computational intelligence," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1459-1460.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352395
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352395&isnumber=8352140

M. Giampieri and A. Rizzi, "An evolutionary agents based system for data mining and local metric learning," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1461-1466.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352396
Abstract: Discovering regularities in Big Data is nowadays a crucial task in many different applications, from bioinformatics to cybersecurity. To this aim, a promising approach consists in performing data clustering with Local Metric Learning, i.e. trying to discover well-formed (compact and populated) clusters and, at the same time, a suitable subset of features corresponding to the subspace where each cluster lies. In this paper, we propose a novel evolutionary agent based clustering algorithm, where agents act as individuals of an evolving population, each one performing a simple cluster analysis task on a different subset of patterns randomly drawn from the entire dataset. A customized genetic algorithm orchestrates the evolution of a population of such agents. This approach is able to reveal clusters that are not evident when using the whole set of features, and can deal with large datasets, as each agent will process a small subset of patterns. First results obtained considering a synthetic dataset are encouraging, suggesting future developments.
keywords: {Clustering algorithms;Genetics;Measurement;Task analysis;Data mining;Genetic algorithms;Next generation networking},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352396&isnumber=8352140

S. T. Gul, M. Imran and A. Q. Khan, "An online incremental support vector machine for fault diagnosis using vibration signature analysis," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1467-1472.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352397
Abstract: A major challenge facing modern industries today is the appropriate handling of faults. A machine fault that goes untreated results into undesirable downtime. The information about machine's health can be obtained by monitoring its vibration signals. In this paper, we apply Support Vector Machine (SVM) to vibration signals in order to detect and classify faults in rotating machines. As the environment changes with time, the machines undergo the phenomena of concept drift and the classifier loses its accuracy. To tackle this issue, we reformulate the classical batch-trained SVM and solve it by an incremental approach, referred as Incremental Support Vector Machine (ISVM). Moreover, an online method is introduced to learn over newer samples of data and make the SVM model adapt to the changing concept trend. The simulation are carried out using Intelligent Maintenance System (IMS) bearing vibration data-set. The results obtained show that the Online Incremental SVM algorithm outperforms the static classical SVM.
keywords: {Support vector machines;Vibrations;Fault detection;Training data;Monitoring;Kernel;Adaptation models;Fault diagnosis;Fault classification;Support vector machine;Online incremental SVM;Concept drift;Vibration signature analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352397&isnumber=8352140

H. Kim, Y. J. Moon, H. Kang and J. Y. Hwang, "Analytical alignment for repairing micro patterns on transparent film in roll-to-roll process," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1473-1477.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352398
Abstract: Defects of micro-patterns in printed electronics can be repaired using laser ablation. However, roll-to-roll (R2R) printing continuously feeds film. Thus, an alignment algorithm should be derived without using rotational kinematics. In this study, an alignment method for the repair process in R2R printing is proposed using machine vision and template-matching (TM). The algorithm calculates misalignment and positional corrections considering geometric relations. The algorithm is iterated until deviations are minimized. The algorithm is implemented with operating software compatible with OpenCV. The results from extreme cases show that the alignment accuracy is ±6 and ±2 pixels for XY directions, respectively.
keywords: {Maintenance engineering;Printing;Cameras;Laser ablation;Kinematics;Machine vision;Optics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352398&isnumber=8352140

S. Kanoga and A. Kanemura, "Assessing the effect of transfer learning on myoelectric control systems with three electrode positions," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1478-1483.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352399
Abstract: A motion recognition module integrated into the myoelectric control system learns the parameters of the classifier using training data recorded during multiple days. However, such module will experience troubles (decreases in recognition accuracy) in daily life because the electrode position of the operation day is slightly different from past days. This paper aims to adjust model parameters using transfer learning and assess its performance. Twenty-two kinds of motions in free space were observed from one subject along isometric force of the right forearm by using a wearable device over a one-month period. In the assessment, myoelectric signals were recorded with three different electrode position sets. Furthermore, five models were trained to recognize each degree-of-freedom motion. A linear discriminant analysis (LDA) classifier with covariate shift adaptation showed better results (Mean ± SE: 3.18 ± 0.308%) than a classical LDA classifier (4.34 ± 0.387%) in overall accuracy. These results suggest that transfer learning improves the robustness and usability of myoelectric control systems with wearable devices in daily life.
keywords: {Electrodes;Electromyography;Control systems;Data models;Training;Training data;Adaptation models},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352399&isnumber=8352140

W. Kusakunniran, A. Wiratsudakul, U. Chuachan, S. Kanchanapreechakorn and T. Imaromkul, "Automatic cattle identification based on fusion of texture features extracted from muzzle images," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1484-1489.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352400
Abstract: Biometrics have been widely used for human identification, including fingerprint, face and iris because they cannot be easily duplicated. Recently, biometrics have been also used for animal (i.e. cattle in this paper) identification. Individual cattle identification is necessary for many important reasons including determining legal ownership, verifying transferred source, and implementing disease surveillance and control. Popular traditional methods for individual cattle identification are using plastic ear tags or microchips. However, the tag can be deduplicated and it can be dangerous and takes time for the human expert to place the microchip in the cattle. Also, it may hurt the cattle. Thus, in this paper, muzzle print is used as a biometric for automatic cattle identification. The fusion of texture features extracted from the muzzle image is used to represent individual cattle. They are Gabor feature and Local Binary Pattern (LBP) histogram. Gabor features were extracted at the different scales and orientations in specific frequencies, while LBP histogram was extracted for each local sub-image to preserve local spatial textures. Then, Support Vector Machine (SVM) is employed as a classifier. The proposed method is reported with the perfect accuracy.
keywords: {Feature extraction;Cows;Support vector machines;Principal component analysis;Histograms;Covariance matrices;Integrated circuits;Cattle identification;Muzzle print;Gabor;LBP;SVM},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352400&isnumber=8352140

A. S. Areeckal, M. Sam and S. S. David, "Computerized radiogrammetry of third metacarpal using watershed and active appearance model," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1490-1495.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352401
Abstract: Osteoporosis is a bone disorder, causing loss of bone mass and increased risk of fragility fracture. Osteoporosis can be diagnosed at a low cost using computerized metacarpal radiogrammetry of the third metacarpal bone of hand X-ray images. The most widely used methods for segmentation of hand bones are deformable models such as Active Shape Model (ASM), Active Appearance Model (AAM), etc. that make use of prior information of the shape and appearance of the object. However, due to the presence of other metacarpal bones having similar shape and size in its proximity, segmentation of third metacarpal bone in isolation becomes challenging and the deformable methods could fail. In this paper, we propose a method to automatically locate and segment the third metacarpal bone using marker-controlled watershed segmentation. Radio-grammetric measurements are determined automatically from the shaft of the third metacarpal bone and can be used to derive bone indices for the detection of bone loss due to osteoporosis. The measurements obtained from the proposed method and AAM are compared with ground truth. The results obtained show that the proposed approach is an efficient method for automated radiogrammetry of third metacarpal bone that can be used as a low cost tool for the early diagnosis of osteoporosis.
keywords: {Bones;Image segmentation;Active appearance model;Image edge detection;Shape;Shafts;Loss measurement;Radiogrammetry;third metacarpal;AAM;watershed},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352401&isnumber=8352140

Y. -C. Zeng, H. -P. Sun, C. -H. Lin and C. -H. Wang, "Determination of conveyor carousels speeds for baggage separation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1502-1507.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352403
Abstract: Baggage handling system plays an important role in airport system, it handles a large amount of baggage every day. While two or more pieces of baggage are collided, extruded, or lain alongside of each other on conveyor, it not only results in luggage damaged, but extends time in baggage transportation. The primary cause of those issues is baggage conveying on two consecutive conveyors with improper speeds. In this paper, we propose a scheme to determine appropriate speeds to multiple parallel conveyors as well as to solve the problem of baggage lain alongside of each other. Baggage is represented by binary pattern in image. The proposed scheme computes moment of force to patterns for simulation of baggage conveying, and calculates movements and rotations of patterns based on theory of torque balance. Consequently, the parallel conveyors with appropriate speeds make two pieces of baggage conveyed separately with less time but without collision, extrusion, and lying alongside of each other.
keywords: {Force;Load modeling;Atmospheric modeling;Manuals;Airports;Torque;baggage handling system;conveyor system;theory of torque balance;baggage separation;simulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352403&isnumber=8352140

K. M. Singh, S. Debbarman and P. P. Singh, "Doppler velocity measurement using closed-loop Goertzel algorithm in PLL technique," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1508-1513.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352404
Abstract: A closed-loop comb-Goertzel algorithm in phase-locked loop technique is proposed for non-contact method of Doppler velocity extraction from a moving object. The Goetrzel algorithm is an efficient Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) where the system complexity reduces from normal Sliding-DFT (SDFT) algorithm by inserting zero/pole in the system function. Stability is improved by introducing a damping factor that allows the system poles to lie within the unit circle z-plane. The algorithm is implemented in phase locking design to enhance the sampling control adaptively. The simulation and experimental investigations show less errors even in large noise condition.
keywords: {Velocity measurement;Doppler effect;Phase locked loops;Discrete Fourier transforms;Gain;Mathematical model;Oscillators;Doppler velocity measurement;Goertzel algorithm;Phase-locked loop;discrete Fourier transform;frequency modulated signal},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352404&isnumber=8352140

P. Nagorny et al., "Generative adverserial networks for geometric surfaces prediction in injection molding: Performance analysis with Discrete Modal Decomposition," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1514-1519.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352405
Abstract: Geometrical and appearance quality requirements set the limits of the current industrial performance in injection molding. To guarantee the product's quality, it is necessary to adjust the process settings in a closed loop. Those adjustments cannot rely on the final quality because a part takes days to be geometrically stable. Thus, the final part geometry must be predicted from measurements on hot parts. In this paper, we use recent success of Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) with the pix2pix network architecture to predict the final part geometry, using only hot parts thermographic images, measured right after production. Our dataset is really small and the GAN learns to translate thermography to geometry. We firstly study prediction performances using different image similarity comparison algorithms. Moreover, we introduce the innovative use of Discrete Modal Decomposition (DMD) to analyze network predictions. The DMD is a geometrical parameterization technique using a modal space projection to geometrically describe surfaces. We study GAN performances to retrieve geometrical parameterization of surfaces.
keywords: {Gallium nitride;Geometry;Training;Generators;Injection molding;Network architecture;Injection molding;Quality prediction;Thermography;Generative Adverserial Networks;Discrete Modal Decomposition},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352405&isnumber=8352140

L. Leitner and C. Endisch, "Robust stochastic process models and parameter estimation for industrial end-of-line-testing," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1520-1525.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352406
Abstract: Common data-based methods for fault detection are often static and non-robust against outliers. To facilitate industrial end-of-line (EOL) testing of complex products with hundreds of potentially drifting / non-stationary features using automatically determined test limits, we investigate robust stochastic statespace models. We compare different filtering algorithms, and implement parameter learning and the calculation of test limits. Variable prediction horizons allow for realistic scenarios where tests are irregularly spaced over time. Exemplary application results are shown for industrial EOL tests of car engines.
keywords: {Testing;Robustness;Production;Stochastic processes;Feature extraction;Training;Current measurement},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352406&isnumber=8352140

W. S. Sayed, M. F. Tolba, A. G. Radwan and S. K. Abd-El-Hafiz, "Speech encryption using generalized modified chaotic logistic and tent maps," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1526-1531.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352407
Abstract: This paper presents a speech encryption application, which utilizes several proposed generalized modified discrete chaotic maps based on the logistic and tent maps for pseudo-random number generation. The generalization scales the output range and the key space. The modification controls the bounds on the output range through a parameter such that chaotic output exists for almost all values of the parameter. Consequently, the modified maps do not suffer from the inherited problems of conventional chaotic generators such as islands of stability and drifting from chaos due to dynamical degradation induced by finite precision. The security and efficiency of the speech encryption scheme is validated through perceptual and statistical aspects, key sensitivity, resistance to brute force and differential attacks and computational complexity.
keywords: {Encryption;Logistics;Ciphers;Bifurcation;Maximum likelihood estimation;Spectrogram;Histograms;Logistic map;Scaling parameters;Speech encryption;Tent map},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352407&isnumber=8352140

N. T. B. Bui, D. C. Pham, B. Q. Nguyen and S. T. Le, "Tracking a 3D target with fusion of 2D radar and bearing-only sensor," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1532-1537.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352408
Abstract: We propose and evaluate six different methods by using the fusion of 2D radar and passive sensors to track the 3D target in Cartesian coordinates. The evaluated results of these methods are examined in various metrics to confirm the stability and accuracy of algorithms. In this paper, numerical simulation and mathematical expressions are presented to expose that the estimation in our model are equivalent to those ones in fusion of 3D radar and IR sensor also.
keywords: {Radar tracking;Two dimensional displays;Target tracking;Radar measurements;Noise measurement;Three-dimensional displays;fusion;tracking 3D target;2D radar;passive sensor;IR sensor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352408&isnumber=8352140

C. Maaoui and A. Pruski, "Unsupervised stress detection from remote physiological signal," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1538-1543.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352409
Abstract: Emotion detection from physiological signals is a relatively new classification task. This paper proposes a comparative study of unsupervised approaches to detecting stress from remote physiological signals. The aim of this study is to explore three techniques for unsupervised classification to assess and quantify mental stress states using a low-cost webcam. An interactive version of the Stroop color word test was employed to induce stress. The unsupervised classification techniques considered are k-means, the mixture of Gaussians model and Self organized map. The obtained results show that the best rate of stress detection is achieved using k-means clustering.
keywords: {stress detection;physiological signal;unsupervised classification;K-Means Clustering;mixture of Gaussians model;Self organized map},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352409&isnumber=8352140

F. Harrou, A. Dairi, Y. Sun and M. Senouci, "Wastewater treatment plant monitoring via a deep learning approach," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1544-1548.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352410
Abstract: This paper presents a fault detection method based on an unsupervised deep learning to monitor operating conditions of wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). This method uses Deep Belief Networks (DBNs) model and one-class support vector machine (OCSVM). Here, DBN model is introduced to account for nonlinear aspects of WWTPs, while OCSVM is employes to reliably detect a fault in WWTP. The developed DBN-OCSVM approach has been tested through practical application on data from a decentralized wastewater treatment plant in Golden, CO, USA. Results show the effectiveness of the developed approach to monitor the WWTP.
keywords: {Monitoring;Feature extraction;Training;Wastewater treatment;Fault detection;Training data;Kernel},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352410&isnumber=8352140

"TT automation, communication, networking and informatics," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1549-1550.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352411
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352411&isnumber=8352140

S. Cavalieri and M. S. Scroppo, "A proposal to make OCF and OPC UA interoperable," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1551-1556.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352412
Abstract: The paper presents a mapping between the Open Connectivity Foundation (OCF) Resource Model and the OPC UA Information Model. The mapping may allow to enable the interoperability between the OCF and OPC UA specifications. The proposal is original as current literature does not provide for such kind of integration.
keywords: {Interoperability;Standards;Protocols;Data models;Servers;Proposals;Industries;OPC UA;OCF;Interoperability;I4.0;IoT},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352412&isnumber=8352140

T. Xue, P. Zeng and H. Yu, "A reinforcement learning method for multi-AGV scheduling in manufacturing," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1557-1561.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352413
Abstract: This paper addresses a multi-AGV flow-shop scheduling problem with a reinforcement learning method. Each AGV equipped with a robotic manipulator, operates on the fixed tracks, transporting semi-finished products between successive machines. The objectives dealt with here is to obtain a AGV schedule that minimize the average job delay and total makespan. After formulating such schedule problem as a Markov problem by defining state features, actions space and reward function, a new scheduling method is proposed, based on reinforcement learning. In this new method AGVs share full information on each machine's instant state and job being executed, making decisions thorough understanding of the entire flow shop. Simulation results demonstrate that this new method learns optimal or near-optimal solution from the past experience and provides better performance than multi-agent scheduling method in a dynamic environment.
keywords: {Job shop scheduling;Learning (artificial intelligence);Task analysis;Manufacturing;Robots;Schedules;multi-AGV;flow-shop;reinforcement learning;Markov problem;optimal solution},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352413&isnumber=8352140

L. Eller, L. C. Siafara and T. Sauter, "Adaptive control for building energy management using reinforcement learning," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1562-1567.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352414
Abstract: Efficient energy management of building operation shall consider the individual and time variant characteristics of the building and its systems to maximize the potential energy savings without compromising the comfort level of occupants. Model-free control approaches, such as Reinforcement Learning, process building operation data to find control actions to operate the building systems while integrating seamlessly into their decisions changes in the building dynamics. These methods, however, do not scale well to complex problems due to the curse of dimensionality, which limits their practical applicability. To address the state explosion problem we propose a Reinforcement Learning controller for a two zone building model that gets state approximation inputs from an Artificial Neural Network. The results show that the system is able to maintain comfort levels while achieving significant energy gains by finding untapped potential for energy performance improvements.
keywords: {Heating systems;Mathematical model;Building automation;Ventilation;Data models;Building Automation Systems;Adaptive Control;Reinforcement Learning;Artificial Neural Networks},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352414&isnumber=8352140

W. Lepuschitz, A. Lobato-Jimenez, A. Grün, T. Höbert and M. Merdan, "An industry-oriented ontology-based knowledge model for batch process automation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1568-1573.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352415
Abstract: Automation systems commonly consist of heterogeneous hardware as well as software. Changes of the production infrastructure, due to new product innovations or alternating market demands, lead to updates of the systems and services, which may require extensive engineering time and costs. In this context, the application of semantic technologies increases the flexibility of software solutions by enhancing the data integration. This paper introduces an ontology-based knowledge model for the batch process domain to achieve a semantic data model for vertical and horizontal data integration. An important asset of this knowledge representation is the consideration of industrial standards and thus its applicability in conjunction with a commercial supervisory control and data acquisition system. A practical use-case is presented that employs this ontology for automatically generating an application in zenon.
keywords: {Ontologies;Data models;Software;IEC Standards;Batch production systems;Ontology;knowledge model;model-based engineering;industrial standards;batch process},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352415&isnumber=8352140

E. Wozniak, T. A. Cherfia and C. Prehofer, "Application of IEC 61499 to develop apps for open platforms," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1574-1579.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352416
Abstract: The idea of an open platform, i.e. a platform in which apps from different vendors can be executed, is used in many domains. In the context of industrial automation systems this concept leads to the challenge of executing apps of different criticality from third parties. This paper tackles key challenges on the open platforms for critical apps. We present a subset of the IEC 61499 modeling language useful to develop apps for open platform, using a simple, deterministic execution model. Secondly, we discuss an execution environment where apps can be installed dynamically.
keywords: {IEC Standards;Semantics;Runtime environment;Biological cells;Adaptation models;Automation;open platform;IEC 61499;formal semantics;toolchain;model-driven development;deterministic models},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352416&isnumber=8352140

H. Zipper and C. Diedrich, "Communication-delay-caused errors in process monitoring scenarios," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1580-1585.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352417
Abstract: Realistic plant and process simulations are common in nowadays engineering processes, e.g. for hardware-in-the-loop tests. Reusing these simulations to assess the behavior of plants at runtime seems natural and is already done for certain use cases. However, the application for a broader range of use cases requires to handle systematic errors caused by model uncertainties. One class of model uncertainties arises from the difference of the communication properties of the plant and its simulation. In this contribution, we show that communication properties have to be considered to enable meaningful comparison between plant and simulation. Furthermore, we introduce a method to consider communication-delay-caused uncertainties.
keywords: {Actuators;Communication networks;Voltage control},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352417&isnumber=8352140

K. A. Maria et al., "Energy efficient industrial wireless system through cross layer optimization," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1586-1591.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352418
Abstract: Industrial wireless system has been considered as a potential application in the upcoming wireless system (e.g. 5G and IoT era). The main requirements of this application are ultra-reliable low-latency and low-power massive machine type communication. Satisfying all these requirements at the same time is still big technical challenge, since many aspects from different layers of network system are inter-dependent in affecting overall system performance. Therefore, system design and optimization are difficult and could not be carried out solely in one part. To overcome these issues, this paper presents cross-layer optimization in order to achieve energy-efficient wireless system, while maintaining low-latency and high-reliability requirements. The cross-layer optimization is performed within Medium Access Layer (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY), which are devoted as the backbone for radio access. The optimizations include system level design, low-power aware protocol and resource management design, signal processing algorithm design and circuit design techniques of transceiver system. Furthermore, the implementation of overall PHY-MAC hardware design for industrial wireless LAN system is presented. The proposed design offers an advantage, in terms of energy-efficient wireless system, as compared to the other classes of low-power wireless systems (e.g. Bluetooth, Zigbee) and the conventional WLAN systems.
keywords: {Wireless communication;Protocols;Reliability;Optimization;Wireless LAN;Energy consumption;Power demand;Industrial Wireless System;Energy-Efficient;Cross-layer Design;Low-overhead Multi User Protocol;Power-efficient PHY Transceiver},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352418&isnumber=8352140

H. Zipper, F. Auris, A. Strahilov and M. Paul, "Keeping the digital twin up-to-date — Process monitoring to identify changes in a plant," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1592-1597.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352419
Abstract: As more and more information is available in all stages of plant engineering, the efficiency and quality of the overall engineering process is improved. This enables new chances for further improvements as well. For example, usage data and events detected during operation of the plant can be fed back to the models used for engineering. This allows future plants to be engineered more efficiently. Furthermore it allows to use these models with up-to-date data to prepare maintenance procedures or to simulate the effects of plant reconfigurations before they are applied. This contribution deals with the architecture required to transfer data from plant operation to the engineering models. We base our approach on the efforts made for virtual commissioning and approval tests. We especially describe a method to extract changes to the process.
keywords: {Monitoring;Adaptation models;Biological system modeling;Actuators;Data models;Documentation;Planning},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352419&isnumber=8352140

H. Ozawa, T. Fujimoto and M. Katayama, "Modeling of sub-GHz wave propagation in factories for reliable wireless communication," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1598-1603.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352420
Abstract: This study presents a sub-GHz band propagation-loss model for a region where the error rate is lower than that observed in previous studies to realize, with high reliability, a wireless control communication system between the equipment in a factory. In particular, we show that the time-varying propagation loss in the line-of-sight channel in the electrical device factories could be approximated using the Rician distribution and determine the minimum values of the K-factors. Furthermore, we suggest the possibility of estimating the fall of propagation loss, which occurs rarely, via extrapolation using fewer samples.
keywords: {Production facilities;Propagation losses;Loss measurement;Wireless communication;Receivers;Reliability;Rician channels},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352420&isnumber=8352140

R. Crisan and A. Korodi, "Noninvasive control solution for energy efficiency in wastewater treatment plants," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1604-1609.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352421
Abstract: Improving energy efficiency in wastewater plants is an important goal for water distribution companies due to the high costs associated with wastewater treatment processes. Most of these costs are generated by the aeration process, respectively optimizing the oxygen control strategy and consequently affecting the ammonium and nitrate levels can lead to significant reduction in energy consumption. Most wastewater treatment plants are already implemented and functioning systems, respectively any interference in modifying invasively existing structures/algorithms is problematic. Following industrial internet of things principles in an Industry 4.0 context, the paper proposes an OPC UA client based model predictive control structure that will allow the solution development in a completely noninvasive manner for the functioning system. The solution is applied in a simulation environment with calibrated and validated model and using real input data. Also, a Node-red and Raspberry Pi platforms application is structured for future long-term testing and validation on real plant following the current research. The paper presents the results of current developments proving the efficiency of the concept.
keywords: {Energy efficiency;wastewater;BSM1;noninvasive control;energy efficiency;OPC UA;IIoT},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352421&isnumber=8352140

F. Salahdine, N. Kaabouch and H. E. Ghazi, "One-bit compressive sensing vs. multi-bit compressive sensing for cognitive radio networks," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1610-1615.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352422
Abstract: Compressive sensing has been proposed as an alternative solution for signal acquisition to directly acquire compressible signals at a rate lower than the Nyquist rate. Compressive sensing techniques can be classified into two categories: one-bit compressive sensing and multi-bit compressive sensing. One-bit compressive sensing performs by acquiring only the sign of each measurement while multi-bit compressive sensing performs by acquiring multiple bits. In this paper, we analyze the performance of each category. We compare their efficiencies using metrics that cover the most aspects of the compressive sensing performance in cognitive radio networks. Simulation results show that one-bit compressive sensing can outperform the multi-bit compressive sensing in terms of speed, robustness to noise, complexity, and reconstruction success rate.
keywords: {Compressed sensing;Sensors;Sparse matrices;Noise measurement;Matching pursuit algorithms;Signal to noise ratio;Complexity theory;cognitive radio;spectrum sensing;scanning;one-bit compressive sensing;multi-bit compressive sensing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352422&isnumber=8352140

S. Dietrich, G. May, L. Underberg, R. Kays and G. Fohler, "Optimized resource allocation for cascaded communication networks in factory automation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1616-1621.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352423
Abstract: Cascaded communication systems consisting of multiple, hierarchically ordered wired and wireless subnetworks are of increasing interest for industrial applications to support reliability and flexibility simultaneously. Therefore, additionally arising latencies due to the cascading have to be minimized to meet the application's real-time requirements. Within this paper, we identify the resource allocation as promising approach to minimize such latencies. By reviewing basic allocation schemes of wired and wireless communication networks, we show their advantages and disadvantages with respect to the physical data transmission. Based on this comparison, we introduce methods to optimize the resource allocation of individual subnetworks. Moreover, we present an algorithm, which finds an optimized scheduling for the data transmissions in cascaded networks.
keywords: {Resource management;OFDM;Real-time systems;Wireless communication;Time-frequency analysis;Forward error correction;Data communication;cascaded network;factory automation;Industrial Ethernet;resource allocation;scheduling algorithm;wireless industrial communication},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352423&isnumber=8352140

A. Dennert, R. Lehmann, S. Schneider and M. Wollschlaeger, "Providing process-centered key performance indicators for system management," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1622-1627.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352424
Abstract: A main goal of every manufacturing company is optimizing the performance of production processes. This is called operational excellence. An important prerequisite for such optimization is finding the appropriate key performance indicators (KPIs) and their interconnections. Another prerequisite is providing correct data from the whole production system. Based on a use case originating from logistics, the paper shows that a Web Based Enterprise Management (WBEM) server can easily be extended to provide the required runtime data in a homogeneous way from both, production and IT systems. Therefore, the information model for ISO 22400 KPIs, business process models (BPMN) and a link model have been implemented in WBEM /CIM.
keywords: {Logistics;Measurement;ISO Standards;Production systems;Automation;operational excellence;network management;information modeling},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352424&isnumber=8352140

G. Cicero, A. Biondi, G. Buttazzo and A. Patel, "Reconciling security with virtualization: A dual-hypervisor design for ARM TrustZone," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1628-1633.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352425
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel design to enable the virtualization of both secure and non-secure worlds offered by ARM platforms with TrustZone technology. The design is based on a dual-hypervisor scheme that allows executing multiple two-world domains in isolation, where each of them can comprise both a standard (i.e., non-secure) execution environment, and a trusted execution environment (TEE). An implementation of the proposed design is presented and discussed by building upon Xvisor, a Type-1 open-source hypervisor. Experimental results to assess the performance of the implementation are finally reported and discussed.
keywords: {Virtual machine monitors;Virtualization;Software;Monitoring;Switches;Security;Tools},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352425&isnumber=8352140

T. Yano, "Space heating control using acceptable set-point temperature estimation by a statistical approach in the lyon smart community project," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1645-1650.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352428
Abstract: Since the energy consumption of space heating accounts for more than 40% of the non-residential energy consumption and about 70% of the residential energy consumption, respectively, in the EU region, it is important to develop energy-saving technologies for space heating control, which is one of the main functions of building automation, in order to realize zero energy buildings (ZEBs), which are expected to be developed in the EU and worldwide. In a smart community project in Lyon, France, which was a joint project by Japan and France, we evaluated energy-saving technologies for space heating based on the data obtained by a Home Energy Management System (HEMS) introduced to the residential area of a building constructed in Lyon, France. Using this HEMS, we have carried out a field test of a new space heating control method using acceptable set-point temperature estimation by a statistical approach (data-driven method), which learns occupants' thermal feedbacks and makes use of them for control. In the field test, based on the data collected by the HEMS, we have obtained the evaluation result for 21 of the 36 apartments in the residential area. We have confirmed that the proposed method lowered minimum acceptable set-point temperatures in 15 apartments and the average energy-saving rate of the proposed method was estimated as 22.1%. Our result also shows that the proposed method can follow the change of occupants' preferred set-point temperature and update the minimum acceptable set-point temperature by learning their feedbacks.
keywords: {Space heating;Buildings;Aerospace electronics;Temperature distribution;Thermostats;Estimation;Space heating control;thermal comfort;acceptable set-point temperature estimation;statistical approach;ZEB},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352428&isnumber=8352140

P. Modica, A. Biondi, G. Buttazzo and A. Patel, "Supporting temporal and spatial isolation in a hypervisor for ARM multicore platforms," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1651-1657.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352429
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of providing spatial and temporal isolation between execution domains in a hypervisor running on an ARM multicore platform. Isolation is achieved by carefully managing the two primary shared hardware resources of today's multicore platforms: the last-level cache (LLC) and the DRAM memory controller. The XVISOR open-source hypervisor and the ARM Cortex A7 platform have been used as reference systems for the purpose of this work. Spatial partitioning on the LLC has been implemented by means of cache coloring, which has been tightly integrated with the ARM virtualization extensions (ARM-VE) to deal with the memory virtualization capabilities offered by a two-stage memory management unit (MMU). Temporal isolation on the DRAM controller has been implemented by realizing a memory bandwidth reservation mechanism, which has been combined with the scheduling logic of the hypervisor. An extensive experimental evaluation has been performed on the popular Raspberry Pi 2 board, showing the effectiveness of the implemented solutions on a case-study composed of multiple Linux domains running state-of-the-art benchmarks.
keywords: {Virtual machine monitors;Color;Virtualization;Random access memory;Multicore processing;Indexes;Interference},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352429&isnumber=8352140

A. Ismail and W. Kastner, "Throttled service calls in OPC UA," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1658-1663.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352430
Abstract: The Open Platform Communications Unified Architecture (OPC UA) standard specifies the use of a push-based communication model for service calls in its client-server architecture. This paper clarifies how this model leaves OPC UA Servers vulnerable to request overload. A solution based on rate throttling is demonstrated to counter this vulnerability. The requirements of the resulting service are quantified and an open-source prototypical implementation is built using the Apache ZooKeeper and open 62541 libraries.
keywords: {Uninterruptible power systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352430&isnumber=8352140

R. Focardi, F. L. Luccio and H. A. M. Wahsheh, "Usable cryptographic QR codes," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1664-1669.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352431
Abstract: QR codes are widely used in various settings such as consumer advertising, commercial tracking, ticketing and marketing. People tend to scan QR codes and trust their content, but there exists no standard mechanism for providing authenticity and confidentiality of the code content. Attacks such as the redirection to a malicious website or the infection of a smartphone with a malware are realistic and feasible in practice. In this paper, we present the first systematic study of usable state-of-the-art cryptographic primitives inside QR codes. We select standard, popular signature schemes and we compare them based on performance, size and security. We conduct tests that show how different usability factors impact on the QR code scanning performance and we evaluate the usability/security trade-off of the considered signature schemes. Interestingly, we find out that in some cases security breaks usability and we provide recommendations for the choice of secure and usable signature schemes.
keywords: {Usability;Cryptography;Malware;Digital signatures;Standards;Phishing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352431&isnumber=8352140

"TT energy transportation, energy management and HVDC supergrid," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1670-1672.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352432
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352432&isnumber=8352140

M. Ashouri, C. L. Bak and F. Faria Da Silva, "A review of the protection algorithms for multi-terminal VCD-HVDC grids," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1673-1678.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352433
Abstract: With the rapid development of renewable energy generation and consequently modern DC transmission technology, more complex HVDC installations are planned for power systems worldwide. Upgrading point to point (P2P) VSC-HVDC transmission lines to multi-terminal DC (VSC-MTDC) networks takes the DC transmission technology to the next level, but meets major technical difficulties in various aspects like control and protection of the grid equipment. This paper reviews the latest researches on the development of novel protection strategies for multi-terminal VSC (MTDC) transmission grids, as well as a brief categorization of converter modeling techniques. Many proposed strategies exist for the protection of HVDC systems based on traveling waves, transient based, voltage and current derivatives, advance signal processing methods, namely wavelet and Fourier transforms, artificial intelligence methods, etc. However, most of them are designed for P2P HVDC Grids and not applicable to MTDC systems.
keywords: {HVDC transmission;Circuit faults;Power conversion;Integrated circuit modeling;Mathematical model;Transient analysis;MTDC;Protection;Review;HVDC;VSC},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352433&isnumber=8352140

A. Iaria, M. R. Rapizza and M. Marzinotto, "Control functions for a radially operated three-terminal VSC-HVDC system: The SA.CO.I. HVDC case," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1679-1684.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352434
Abstract: The EU FP7 BEST PATHS research project is investigating in one of its Demos the possible refurbishment of the three-terminal HVDC link “SA.CO.I.2” (300 MW) between Sardinia, Corsica and the continental grid. The present paper proposes a dedicated control solution, based on the “voltage margin method”, for the future SA.CO.I.3 assuming the adoption of Voltage Source Converters “VSC” with a bipolar configuration and a 600 MW transmission capacity. The three-terminal VSC-HVDC SA.CO.I.3 has been modelled together with a “horizon year 2030” representation of the interconnected AC systems in the DigSILENT PowerFactory® software. The simulation of electromechanical transients in Sardinia demonstrated that the proposed control solution is able to exploit the VSC technical potentialities with advantage, in particular, for the insular Sardinian/Corsican frequency stability.
keywords: {Voltage control;HVDC transmission;Frequency control;Regulators;Frequency measurement;Active filters;HVDC;VSC;SA.CO.I.;PSS;Sardinia},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352434&isnumber=8352140

T. Prombud, P. Kitcharoen and P. Yutthagowith, "Development of a partial discharge testing system for potential transformers," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1685-1689.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352435
Abstract: In this paper, the development of a partial discharge testing system for potential transformers (PTs) is presented. The system is composed of a low-voltage and 200-Hz power frequency converter connected with a low pass filter, a high-voltage transformer, and a conventional partial discharge detection system. The performances of the converter with three generated waveform, i.e. square wave, quasi-square wave, and unipolar pulse width modulation (PWM) are compared in terms of the DC charging voltage, the voltage difference (peak voltage/square root of 2 and rms voltage), total harmonic distortion of the output high voltage (THDv), and background noises in the partial discharge test. It is found that the unipolar PWM frequency converter provides the best performances in terms of the voltage difference, THDv, and background noise. The voltage difference and THDv are lower than 5%, and the background noise is less than 2.5 pC. In addition, the developed system has been used for the real partial test on a potential transformer in the distribution system successfully.
keywords: {Partial discharges;Noise measurement;Pulse width modulation;Testing;Voltage transformers;Frequency conversion;Low pass filters;frequency converter;high-voltage tests;partial discharge;potential transformer;power quality},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352435&isnumber=8352140

A. Ovalle, A. Hably and S. Bacha, "Escort evolutionary game dynamics application on a distribution system with PV, BSS and EVs," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1690-1695.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352436
Abstract: This paper provides an optimal energy management application of a multipopulation approach based on the escort evolutionary game theory. A distribution system including photovoltaic (PV) generation, a dedicated battery storage system (BSS) interacting with electrical vehicles (EVs) is studied. Different case studies with single-phase and three-phase EV chargers are presented and analysed. Results show the benefits of integrating a BSS regarding the undesired unbalancing effects and strong peaks of PV production.
keywords: {Sociology;Statistics;Reactive power;Batteries;Game theory;State of charge;Vehicle dynamics;Plug-In Hybrid Electric Vehicles;Smart charging;Vehicle-to-Grid;Peak shaving;Valley filling;Game theory;Escort evolutionary game theory},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352436&isnumber=8352140

A. Mouhaidali, O. Chadebec, S. Silvant, D. Tromeur-Dervout and J. Guichon, "Evaluation of HVDC cable impedance and admittance matrices by finite element method," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1696-1701.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352437
Abstract: In this work, a 2D Finite Element Method (FEM) is used to calculate the frequency dependent impedance and admittance matrices of underground and submarine cables. A harmonic magnetodynamic formulation is used to calculate the series impedances, and for the calculation of the parallel admittance an electrodynamic formulation is applied. The frequency response of the cable was obtained by coupling the FEM method with an external electric circuits. This technique allows the physical representation of the nonlinear behavior of the frequency dependence of the cable parameters. The numerical results are compared with those obtained from commonly used analytical formulations and other methods available in the literature. Different surrounding environment cases are treated, and their effect is shown in frequency. Time domain simulations under fault circumstances point out the necessity of an accurate cable model. Current and voltage measurements are the input of protection algorithm and breaking decision depends on these values. Therefore, the use of a precise method is mandatory.
keywords: {Finite element analysis;Impedance;Conductors;Admittance;Power cables;Earth;Magnetic domains},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352437&isnumber=8352140

H. Hamlaoui and B. Francois, "Interest of storage based STATCOM systems to the power quality enhancement of thyristors based LCC HVDC links for offshore wind farm," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1702-1707.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352438
Abstract: This paper defines a three level 48 pulse STATCOM based on GTO-VSC which is used to support the integration of remote large offshore wind farms into the main onshore grid using line-commutated high-voltage dc connection (LCC-HVDC). This mature transmission technology requires a large quantity of reactive power. In order to enhance the dynamic performance of the LCC-HVDC connected to a weak system, this work presents STATCOM applications to improve the power quality and to avoid commutation failures. Simulation results show that HVDC LCC technology connected to a weak system needs extra reactive power compensation. It confirms the STATCOM performance and its dynamic and fast reactive power compensation during voltage fault conditions. Finally, the sizing of the STATCOM dc capacitor is studied.
keywords: {Automatic voltage control;Reactive power;Inverters;HVDC transmission;Capacitors;Power harmonic filters;Power Quality;Offshore wind farm;HVDC;Line commutated converters (LCC);STATCOM},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352438&isnumber=8352140

L. Ängquist, A. Baudoin, S. Norrga, S. Nee and T. Modeer, "Low-cost ultra-fast DC circuit-breaker: Power electronics integrated with mechanical switchgear," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1708-1713.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352439
Abstract: The paper describes a concept for fast-acting circuit-breaker using vacuum interrupter (VI) assisted by a power-electronic converter with low output voltage. The converter excites a passive resonant circuit to create current zero-crossing in the arc in the VI to make it extinguish the current. A fast-acting actuator using a Thomson coil separates the contacts in a few milliseconds. The principle is outlined, and a laboratory prototype is described. In experiments 10 kA was successfully interrupted against 9 kV in 3 ms.
keywords: {HVDC transmission;RLC circuits;Switches;Actuators;Power electronics;Short-circuit currents;Circuit breakers;vacuum interrupter;circuit-breaker;HVDC;Thomson coil},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352439&isnumber=8352140

J. Lin, Q. Zhang, G. Sheng, Y. Yan and X. Jiang, "Prediction system for dynamic transmission line load capacity based on PCA and online sequential extreme learning machine," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1714-1717.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352440
Abstract: The accurate prediction and evaluation of the operating status of transmission line can provide technical support for the safe, economical and efficient operation of the power system. Most of the traditional methods just use a single parameter for the forecasting and analysis of transmission line. The running state of transmission line is also affected by weather conditions, operating conditions and many other factors. Due to the low quality of the monitoring data and the large randomness of the environmental conditions, the traditional methods have great limitations in the accuracy and timeliness of the prediction. In this paper, a load prediction method based on Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and online sequential extreme learning machine (OSELM) is proposed. Firstly, the principal component analysis is used to reduce the dimension of the original data, and the parameters with less influencing factors are eliminated. Main parameters are extracted to train the online sequential extreme learning machine. The practical examples show that the proposed method has better data fitting ability and higher prediction accuracy.
keywords: {Principal component analysis;Power transmission lines;Training;Predictive models;Load modeling;Power system dynamics;Transmission line;principal component analysis;Online sequential extreme learning machine;state prediction},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352440&isnumber=8352140

"TT energy storage systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1718-1720.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352441
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352441&isnumber=8352140

O. Rahbari, N. Omar, P. Van Den Bossche and J. Van Mierlo, "A centralized state of charge estimation technique for electric vehicles equipped with lithium-ion batteries in smart grid environment," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1721-1725.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352442
Abstract: Electric vehicles (EVs) not only act as a load in grid-to-vehicle but also as a storage system in vehicle-to-grid concept. Further, both renewable energy sources (RESs) and EVs can be classified under multi-distributed generations. In this regard, fossil-based power generation units as traditional back-ups or distributed generations can be replaced by a combination of renewable energy sources (RESs) and EVs to alleviate suffering from the fluctuation of renewable power generation units. However, successful coordination of electric vehicles and renewable energy systems require accurate state estimations of EVs such as state of charge (SoC) due to intermittent renewable energy output. Hence this combination emphasizes the need for an efficient method of SoC estimation. Since battery management system is in the initial stage of development, none of the proposed intelligent state of charge estimation techniques has been capable of being implemented in battery management system. In this regard, the present article proposes an off-board real-time state of charge estimation technique, can be implemented in fog computing architecture, for lithium-ion battery based on the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) database enabling to compare the outcome of the present article with the recent studies. In this article, a non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm II (NSGA-II) is combined with an artificial neural network (ANN) technique to estimate SoC of four batteries simultaneously. The results of the proposed technique indicate high convergence rate and high accurate estimation.
keywords: {Batteries;Estimation;Artificial neural networks;State of charge;Smart grids;Training;Renewable energy sources;state of charge estimation;non-domestic sorting genetic algorithm;artificial neural network;lithium-ion battery;smart grid;off-board state of charge estimation Introduction},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352442&isnumber=8352140

B. Gundogdu, D. T. Gladwin, M. P. Foster and D. A. Stone, "A forecasting battery state of charge management strategy for frequency response in the UK system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1726-1731.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352443
Abstract: Frequency regulation is an important part of ancillary services in the UK power system to mitigate the impacts of variable energy resources and uncertainty of load on system frequency. The National Grid Electricity Transmission (NGET), the main distribution network operator in the UK, have introduced various frequency response services which are developed to provide real-time response to deviations in the grid frequency. This paper aims to meet the balancing requirement of NGET for UK frequency response service. Flexible and fast response capabilities of battery energy storage systems (BESSs) make them an ideal candidate to provide grid frequency regulation. This paper presents a control algorithm that supplies a charge/discharge power output with respect to deviations in the grid frequency, whilst managing the state-of-charge (SOC) of the BESS to maximise the utilisation of the available energy capacity. In this paper, a forecasting battery SOC management and a battery charge/discharge management strategy have also been developed to maximize battery availability for grid frequency response delivery. A model of a 2MW/1MWh lithium-titanate BESS, that is experimentally validated, is used to simulate historical real-time frequency data obtained from NGET to verify the proposed algorithm based on the control of an experimentally validated battery model.
keywords: {Hafnium;Erbium;battery energy storage system;frequency regulation;frequency response;grid support;state-of-charge management},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352443&isnumber=8352140

E. G. Cojocaru, M. J. Vasallo, J. M. Bravo and D. Marín, "A lifetime-extending model-based predictive control for scheduling in concentrating solar power plants," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1732-1737.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352444
Abstract: In this work, a model-based predictive control (MPC) approach with turbine protection is proposed to face the scheduling problem in concentrating solar power (CSP) plants with thermal energy storage (TES). This approach allows rescheduling the generation at regular periods taking advantage of the most recent energy prices and weather forecast, and of the current plant's state. Moreover, a more workable generation schedule for the next day is carried out as a result of that rescheduling. The turbine protection is based on the penalization for changes of the turbine output and the limitations of the number of daily turbine startups. These mechanisms aim to preserve the turbine lifetime. However, these constraints limit the flexibility of the electricity generation, therefore they could worsen the economic profits derived from sales of electricity. In conclusion, the proposed scheduling method provides a trade-off between the economic profits obtained from energy sales and the protection of the generation block. The proposed approach is applied, in a simulation context, to a 50 MW parabolic trough collector-based CSP with TES under the assumption of participation in the Spanish day-ahead energy market. A case study based on a one-month period is performed. The simulation results show, for several levels of turbine protection, the changes in generation profiles and the reduction of economic profits. It can also be observed that the reduction of economic profits is not significant. This result encourages the use of the turbine protection in the MPC approach.
keywords: {Turbines;Schedules;Predictive models;Economics;Weather forecasting;Optimization;Production;interfacing and control of energy storage technology;optimization;hybrid systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352444&isnumber=8352140

N. E. Ghossein, A. Sari and P. Venet, "A Lithium-Ion Capacitor electrical model considering pore size dispersion," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1738-1742.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352445
Abstract: Since Energy Storage Systems (ESSs) are electrochemical devices, they are often modeled using equivalent circuit models in order to monitor and control their behaviors. Several models had been developed for Lithium-Ion Batteries (LIBs) and Supercapacitors (SCs) based on time or frequency domain measurements. One of the frequently used modeling methods consists on measuring the impedance of the cells using Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) and then fitting an impedance model to the data. Recent research applied this method to Lithium-Ion Capacitors (LICs), which belong to a new series of hybrid SCs. However, the applied models do not accurately describe the impedance of LICs at low frequencies. This results from considering the size of the pores of their positive electrode, made of activated carbon, identical. Therefore, this paper introduces a new model of LICs taking into account the dispersion of pores of the positive electrode. A dispersion factor was added to a previous model using a Constant Phase Element (CPE). A good agreement between measured and predicted values of the impedance was found, especially at low frequencies.
keywords: {Impedance;Mathematical model;Electrodes;Frequency measurement;Capacitance;Dispersion;Integrated circuit modeling;Lithium-ion capacitor;equivalent circuit model;CPE model;pore size dispersion;energy storage system},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352445&isnumber=8352140

T. Chun, H. Kim and E. Nho, "Charging and discharging strategies of grid-connected super-capacitor energy storage systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1743-1747.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352446
Abstract: The energy storage is an effective technique for smoothing out the power fluctuation of the renewable energy sources. Because a super-capacitor has a fast charging/ discharging capability, long cycle life, and low-energy capacity, the super-capacitor energy storage system (SCESS), which consists of the super-capacitor, bidirectional DC-DC converter, and grid-connected inverter, is able to ensure the power quality in a short duration of time. This paper proposes the control strategies of both the bidirectional DC-DC converter and grid-connected inverter for charging and discharging operations of the SCESS. The switching pattern for achieving the zero current switching (ZCS) commutation of the DC-DC converter in the charging mode is suggested in order to reduce the switching loss. The experimental results are carried out in order to validate the charging and discharging performances of the SCESS and the ZCS of bidirectional DC-DC converter.
keywords: {Inverters;DC-DC power converters;Voltage control;Capacitors;Batteries;Inductors;Bidirectional DC-DC converter;grid-connected inverter;power fluctuations;super-capacitor energy storage;zero current switching},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352446&isnumber=8352140

C. Savard, P. Venet, L. Piétrac, É. Niel and A. Sari, "Increase lifespan with a cell management algorithm in electric energy storage systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1748-1753.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352447
Abstract: This paper presents a different way to manage batteries composed by association of basic and redundancy cells. This is an algorithm adapting the internal configuration according to the state of charge of each cell in order to reduce cycling aging effects that cells undergo during normal operation. The lithium-ion pack reliability is summarized in this article before a presentation of simulation results. It is demonstrated that with the introduced cell management scheme, the useful remaining lifespan of the battery can be increased. As a result, adding redundant cells to increase lifespan becomes economically viable.
keywords: {Computer architecture;Microprocessors;Batteries;Redundancy;Aging;Mathematical model;Battery model;aging parameters;lifespan;re-configuration},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352447&isnumber=8352140

Z. Chen, M. Sun, X. Shu, J. Shen and R. Xiao, "On-board state of health estimation for lithium-ion batteries based on random forest," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1754-1759.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352448
Abstract: Precise estimation of state of health (SOH) for lithium-ion batteries is critical to improve the state of charge (SOC) estimation precision, guarantee safety and improve the usage lifetime. In this paper, considering actual usage of lithiumion battery in electrical vehicles (EVs), a novel SOH estimation method is proposed based on the dataset of partial charging voltage under the constant-current (CC) mode and current value under the constant voltage (CV) mode. A random forest (RF) model is built to perform the battery SOH estimation, whose number of regression trees and number of input variables per node are optimized by the out of bag (OOB) estimation. In addition, the support vector machine (SVM) and least squares support vector machine (LSSVM) are employed for comparison of the SOH estimation accuracy. The results show that RF can achieve more accurate estimation of SOH, compared with those based on the SVM and LSSVM.
keywords: {Batteries;Estimation;Support vector machines;Radio frequency;State of charge;Training;Discharges (electric);lithium-ion battery;state of health (SOH);random forest (RF);out of bag (OOB)},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352448&isnumber=8352140

F. Errigo, P. Venet, L. Chedot and A. Sari, "Optimal supercapacitor pack sizing for modular multilevel converter with integrated energy storage system," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1760-1766.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352449
Abstract: Energy Storage Systems (ESS) are a necessity for the future power distribution network and so their use is expected to grow. Usually, the implementation of an ESS is achieved by massive battery storage made of long connected row of cells, potentially leading to reliability issues. This paper investigates how to integrate a scalable ESS unit taking advantage of the modularity of modular multilevel converters (MMCs). It aims at presenting a detailed sizing methodology of supercapacitor (SC) pack in a way that the overall cost of the solution can be minimised. The proposed converter topology is briefly introduced. The results reveal that introducing an additional power converter into a submodule (SM) is mostly interesting for designing the ESS and for managing the ESS energy.
keywords: {Topology;Supercapacitors;Power systems;High-voltage techniques;Integrated circuit modeling;Modular multilevel converter;Energy storage;Supercapacitors;Sizing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352449&isnumber=8352140

"TT medical and healthcare robotics and automation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1767-1768.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352450
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352450&isnumber=8352140

S. Maldonado-Bascón, F. J. Acevedo-Rodríguez, F. Montoya-Andúgar and P. Gil-Jiménez, "Low cost robot for indoor cognitive disorder people orientation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1769-1774.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352451
Abstract: Temporal and spatial orientation problems arise with cognitive disorders. This paper describes an assistive low-cost robot, focusing on its navigation abilities based on ultrasound sensors and QR landmarks. Compared with other works, we propose the use of low-cost inaccurate sensing setup, which must be counteracted by proper design of signal processing algorithms. The results show that accurate enough occupancy map can be obtained with the developed platform. The assistive robot is intended to be used at disable attention centers, where non-technical-specialized caregivers are to be using it at their facilities, including the initial setup. For that reason, special attention has been paid in the ease of use. Although other functionalities are being included, the main application described in this paper is to give information to people with cognitive disorders, about their position and the path to follow to reach a specific location.
keywords: {Robot sensing systems;Navigation;Ultrasonic imaging;Mobile robots;Robot kinematics},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352451&isnumber=8352140

I. K. A. Enriko, M. Suryanegara and D. Gunawan, "My Kardio: A telemedicine system based on machine-to-machine (M2M) technology for cardiovascular patients in rural areas with auto-diagnosis feature using k-Nearest Neighbor algorithm," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1775-1780.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352452
Abstract: Cardiovascular disease is one of the deadliest diseases which causes about one-third of death in the world. Meanwhile, in growing country like Indonesia, the healthcare service quality is still low. The number of physicians is still lacking, especially in rural areas. This study proposes a telemedicine system named “My Kardio” based on machine-to-machine (M2M) technology to help cardiovascular patients in rural areas to check their health remotely to a doctor in the urban area. The system is supplemented with an auto-diagnosis system to help the doctor in taking diagnosis. The auto-diagnosing system is developed with k-Nearest Neighbor (kNN) machine learning algorithm. The system has been implemented and trials have been performed which showed good results.
keywords: {Medical services;Servers;Electrocardiography;Machine-to-machine communications;Logic gates;Interviews;Training data;telemedicine;machine-to-machine;Internet of things;k-nearest neighbor},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352452&isnumber=8352140

"TT E-mobility," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1781-1782.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352453
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352453&isnumber=8352140

S. Habib, M. M. Khan, J. Huawei, K. Hashmi, M. T. Faiz and H. Tang, "A study of implemented international standards and infrastructural system for electric vehicles," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1783-1788.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352454
Abstract: The impending environmental issues and growing concerns for global energy crises are driving the need for new opportunities and technologies that can meet significantly the higher demand of cleaner and sustainable energy systems. This necessitates the development of transportation and power generation systems. The deployment of electric vehicles (EVs) is considered as an emergent solution to meet the current and future energy crises and environmental issues. The electrification of transportation system is a promising approach to green the transportation systems and to reduce the issues of climate change. This paper inspects the present status, latest deployment and challenging issues in implementation of EVs infrastructural and charging systems in conjunction with several international standards and charging codes. In this study, the on-board and off-board categories of charging systems with unidirectional and bidirectional power flow are shown. Unidirectional charging offers hardware limitation and reduce interconnection issues. Bidirectional charging offers the fundamental feature of vehicle to grid technology. Cost issues and requirements for on-board energy storage systems are reduced with the accessibility of charging infrastructures Furthermore, an extensive analysis of international standards which are implemented for deployment of EVs are explained. Our study also compared and evaluated infrastructural and charging systems based on equipment, location and time of charging, cost, amount of power, impacts on the gird and other aspects.
keywords: {Standards;Electric vehicles;Charging stations;Bidirectional power flow;Batteries;Connectors;Electric vehicles (EVs);EVs standards;charging power levels;infrastructure of charging;on-board and off-board chargers;unidirectional and bidirectional power flow},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352454&isnumber=8352140

L. A. Ramos and M. Mezaroba, "Bidirectional isolated AC-DC converter for electric vehicles multifunctional chargers," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1789-1794.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352455
Abstract: This paper presents the study of a single-stage bidirectional isolated AC-DC converter with power factor correction (PFC) and high frequency isolation. The proposed converter is based on the interleaved technique and the Dual Active Bridge converter (DAB) operation, using the phase-shift control to regulate the power flow between primary and secondary side of the transformer. A theoretical analysis is presented and simulation results are presented and discussed.
keywords: {Topology;Load flow;Switches;Inductors;Batteries;Rectifiers;Power factor correction;Bidirectional chargers;Interleaving technique;High frequency isolation;Electric vehicles},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352455&isnumber=8352140
E. Benedito and A. Dòria-Cerezo, "Influence of cooperative-controlled driving in the traffic flow," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1795-1800.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352456
Abstract: This paper presents some preliminary results on the influence of vehicles equipped with cooperative adaptive cruise control algorithms to the traffic flow. The design of the controller consists in regulating a policy distance that depends on the longitudinal speed of the vehicle and, when available, the velocity of precedent vehicles. The behaviour of the proposed algorithms are tested in numerical simulations. Additionally, the influence of cooperative driving to traffic properties in heterogenous roads, i.e., with a variable (and randomly) presence of controlled-vehicles is analysed using a standard traffic simulator.
keywords: {Roads;Vehicle dynamics;Cruise control;Stability analysis;Sensors;Automobiles;Adaptive systems;cooperative adaptive cruise control;string stability;traffic simulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352456&isnumber=8352140

A. Beppu and S. Katsura, "Realization of transmitter for wireless power transfer to multi loads," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1801-1806.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352457
Abstract: Recently, wireless power transfer technologies has been studied for attractive application. The technology realize power transmitting to electronics without wire. Therefore, applying electric vehicles or medical medical equipments. For these applications, wireless power transfer using magnetic resonance has been studied. On the other hand, the way of transmitting power to multi load i will be needed in the future. Wireless power transfer to multi load is one of the important topic of this technology. However, it is difficult to transmitting energy to only intended load by conventional method. Therefore, in this paper, wireless power transfer to multi load with repeater is considered. Circuit design for controlling transmitting power to loads independently are proposed. Overview of the system and circuit topologies that realize requirements of this system are introduced. Experimental system is designed and experiment is conducted to verify the effect of proposed system.
keywords: {Wireless power transfer;Transmitters;Receivers;RLC circuits;Impedance;Magnetic resonance},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352457&isnumber=8352140

B. T. Vankayalapati, R. Singh and V. K. Bussa, "Two stage integrated on-board charger for EVs," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1807-1813.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352458
Abstract: On-Board integrated battery chargers integrate the charger into the powertrain of an electric vehicle (EV). This reduces the overall cost of an EV by eliminating the need for a seperate charger. In this paper a two stage integrated on-board battery charger for EVs is proposed. In the proposed charger topology, the 3-phase traction inverter in the vehicle powertrain is reconfigured as a front end AC-DC boost rectifier power factor correction (PFC) stage cascaded by a DC-DC converter stage during charging operation to charge the battery. During motoring operation, it works as a single stage DC-AC 3 phase inverter. Due to the presence of a DC-DC stage during charging, the proposed integrated charger topology is applicable to a wide range of EVs with different battery pack voltage ratings. It is particularly suitable for EVs with low battery pack voltage. Also, the proposed two stage topology offers wide possibilities in terms of the control strategy employed. The proposed concept is validated with experimental results of a 400 W prototype. The performance of the proposed charger in charging mode is also validated with CC-CV charging of a 24 V-30 Ah lead acid battery.
keywords: {Topology;Batteries;Switches;Inverters;Legged locomotion;Capacitors;Battery chargers},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352458&isnumber=8352140

N. B. Arias, S. Hashemi, P. B. Andersen, C. Træholt and R. Romero, "V2G enabled EVs providing frequency containment reserves: Field results," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1814-1819.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352459
Abstract: Frequency regulation is procured by transmission system operators (TSOs) to ensure stable and reliable operation of power systems. In the Nordic energy region, frequency-controlled normal operation reserve (FNR) is one of the services that require fast-response. Electric vehicles (EVs) with vehicle to grid (V2G) capability may be considered an FNR provider in a future renewable-based power system. This paper presents results from the first commercial V2G hub in the Nordic area using the EV fleet of Frederiksberg Forsyning. The results are achieved by participating in the Danish frequency regulation market, and provide an analysis of the EV fleet operational data. Additionally, an analysis on practical issues that may result from realistic implementation of frequency regulation, such as delays, measurement errors and physical equipment constraints is given. These issues must be taken into account when developing new strategies for providing frequency services with EVs in a future scenario. Results show that a set of EVs operating in aggregated mode is able to support the grid while satisfying the primary goal of the EV fleet, i.e. transportation of fleet customers.
keywords: {Frequency control;State of charge;Vehicle-to-grid;Batteries;Automobiles;Power system stability;Production;Electric vehicles;EV fleet;Frequency regulation;Services;Practical issues},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352459&isnumber=8352140

M. K. Ghezzi, A. Dòria-Cerezo and J. M. Olm, "Yaw moment MRAC with optimal torque vectoring for a four in-wheel motor EV," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1820-1825.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352460
Abstract: A direct yaw moment control of a four in-wheel motor independent drive electric vehicle is proposed. The advantages of this kind of vehicle are exploited by designing an optimal torque vectoring controller. The torque distribution computation coincides with the resolution of an optimization problem, which is carried out with the use of gradient method. Three different cost functions are taken into account to formulate the optimization problem. A yaw moment control is carried out with a Model Reference Adaptive Control. Numerical simulations show that satisfying result are obtained in terms of yaw rate reference tracking and torque distribution curves for common test scenarios like J-turn, single and double lane change.
keywords: {Torque;Tires;Force;Wheels;Vehicle dynamics;Mathematical model;Cost function;yaw;moment;control;torque;vectoring;MRAC;in-wheel;vehicle},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352460&isnumber=8352140

"TT education and standards," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1826-1828.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352461
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352461&isnumber=8352140

E. G. Cojocaru, M. J. Vasallo, J. M. Bravo and D. Marín, "Concentrated solar power plant simulator for education purpose," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1829-1834.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352462
Abstract: Concentrated solar power (CSP) plants that include thermal energy storage (TES) are an emerging renewable energy source due their dispatch capabilities similar to fossil fuel power plants. As such, it can be of interest to introduce students to its work mechanism and particularities. A simulator for a CSP plant with TES has been built as a teaching tool in order to provide a clear picture of the system. The simulation is based on the model of a 50 MW parabolic trough collector-based CSP plant with molten-salt-based TES. The plant is modeled as a mixed-integer linear-program, with the software implementation in Matlab.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Tools;Turbines;Renewable energy sources;Optimization;Partial discharges;simulation;modeling;hybrid systems},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352462&isnumber=8352140

"SS novel techniques for condition monitoring of electric machines fed by an inverter or not," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1835-1836.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352463
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352463&isnumber=8352140

M. Garcia and J. Antonino-Daviu, "Efficiency assessment of induction motors operating under different fault conditions," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1837-1842.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352464
Abstract: Fault diagnosis in induction motors has been a topic that has drawn an increasing attention among the electrical engineering community, including both industry and academia. Diverse techniques have been developed in order to detect the presence of possible faults in their early stages, so that forced outages of the motor and consequent economic consequences can be avoided. However, little attention has been paid to the implications of the presence of these faults in terms of motor efficiency reduction. The efficiency drops caused by the existence of faults or anomalies in the motor, which can be present during long time intervals, can lead to economic losses that can be even greater than those caused by eventual motor outages. In spite of this fact, many industrial users are not aware of the efficiency repercussions of the operation under non-healthy conditions. As a consequence, it becomes necessary to accurately study and quantify the efficiency decrements caused by the presence of possible failures, so that the users can have this information available to adopt proper maintenance decisions. This paper analyses how different failures influence the value of motor efficiency; diverse types of rotor faults as well as bearing failures are considered. It is shown how the presence of these failures affects the motor efficiency and may have serious implications on the motor performance.
keywords: {induction motors;efficiency;fault detection;rotor;bearings;reliability},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352464&isnumber=8352140

I. Sadeghi, H. Ehya, J. Faiz and A. A. S. Akmal, "Online condition monitoring of large synchronous generator under short circuit fault — A review," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1843-1848.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352465
Abstract: This paper reviews short-circuit fault in the large synchronous generators. It is shown that probability of rotor short-circuit fault in large synchronous generators is more likely compared to stator short circuit fault. Different fault indices for short circuit fault detection of the rotor are reviewed and their competencies are compared.
keywords: {Rotors;Circuit faults;Synchronous generators;Windings;Stator windings;Insulation;Air gaps;short circuit;large synchronous generator;fault;index;condition monitoring},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352465&isnumber=8352140

T. Plazenet, T. Boileau, C. Caironi and B. Nahid-Mobarakeh, "Signal processing tools for non-stationary signals detection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1849-1853.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352466
Abstract: In this paper we aim to compare the abilities and performances of signal processing tools to detect non-stationary signals coming from condition monitoring of electrical machines. From the vast amount of available tools, we focus on existing signal processing methods suitable for real applications for non-stationarities tracking and quantification over time which is particularly interesting in fault diagnosis. First, we assess the spectral kurtosis, a tool that gained much attention because of his capability to characterize transients masked by strong noises. In order to detect non-stationarities, other methods are evaluated such as the spectral subtraction through the short time Fourier transform or the Wiener filtering which can remove stationary components. The analytical framework of each tool is first presented. Non-stationary tests signals based on properties of vibration signals of bearings are proposed to compare effectiveness, advantages and drawbacks of each methods for non-stationarities detection. The purpose is to select a method that is best suited for each type of non-stationarity in order to improve the reliability of the detection.
keywords: {Vibrations;Transient analysis;Wiener filters;Tools;Signal processing;Monitoring;Condition monitoring;non-stationary signal;spectral kurtosis;spectral subtraction;Wiener filtering;signal processing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352466&isnumber=8352140

C. A. Platero, R. Granizo, F. Blázquez and E. Marchesi, "Testing of non-toroidal shape primary pass-through current transformer for electrical machine monitoring and protection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1854-1858.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352467
Abstract: The monitoring of electrical machines is based on current measurement in most of the cases. For this purpose the use of current transformer is a common practice and currently the use of non-toroidal shape primary pass-through current transformers is increasing. Some problems in the monitoring and protection of large transformers and motors have been detected when this type of current transformer have been employed, with several cables per phase. The transient response of the current transformers is essential for the correct operation of the monitoring system. During the starting or in short-circuit condition, high current flows into the primary and secondary windings and as result large flux and electromagnetic forces are developed. This paper presents the advantages of testing non-toroidal shape primary pass-through current transformer with high current primary injection instead of secondary voltage injection as it is normally do.
keywords: {Current transformers;Windings;Current measurement;Power transformer insulation;Monitoring;Resistance;Machines protection;Machine Monitoring;current transformers;current transformers testing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352467&isnumber=8352140

C. Caicedo-Narvaez et al., "Thermal signature analysis of an 8/6 switched reluctance motor under inter-turn short circuit fault," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1859-1864.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352468
Abstract: Switched Reluctance Motors (SRMs) are well known for their resilience and ability to perform under harsh environments. However, these machines are still subject to common electric machine faults such as short circuit, insulation failure, eccentricity and broken bearings. This paper presents a detailed analysis of thermal signatures due to inter-turn faults. By comparing thermal simulations to copper loss analysis of a faulty 8/6 SRM, this paper shows that thermal imaging of electric machines can be used as a viable noninvasive method to detect inter-turn short circuit faults.
keywords: {Reluctance motors;Circuit faults;Windings;Thermal analysis;Stator windings;Copper;SRM;thermal imaging;finite element analysis;fault detection;switched reluctance motors;windings},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352468&isnumber=8352140

L. Saidi, J. Ben Ali, M. Benbouzid and E. Bechhoefer, "Wind turbine drivetrain prognosis approach based on Kalman smoother with confidence bounds," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1865-1870.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352469
Abstract: This paper represents an integrated prognostics method dedicated to the wind turbine high-speed shaft bearing prognosis, which integrates physical degradation model and data driven approaches. Indeed, we introduce an integrated prognostic approach based on usage model through Paris's law and the use of a Kalman smoother to estimate the remaining useful life offering a solution to the inherent phase delay cancellation from Kalman filtering, and providing a more accurate and smoother estimate with confidence bounds. The proposed method is validated on a real 2 MW wind turbine (S88, Suzelon). The results show that the Kalman smoother is an effective way to improve trending and remaining useful life estimation.
keywords: {Degradation;Data models;Prognostics and health management;Load modeling;Kalman filters;Mathematical model;Bearing failure;Driven approach;Health indicator;Kalman smoother;Physics based approach;Prognostics and health Management;Remaining useful life;Wind turbine generator},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352469&isnumber=8352140

"SS advanced control of high power converters for sustainable energy," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1871-1872.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352470
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352470&isnumber=8352140

M. Mehrasa, M. Sharifzadeh, A. Sheikholeslami, E. Pouresmaeil, J. P. S. Catalão and K. Al-Haddad, "A control strategy based on the upper and lower's arms modulation functions of MMC in HVDC applications," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1873-1878.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352471
Abstract: A control strategy Is proposed In this paper based on considering the upper and lower's arms modulation functions of a MMC in HVDC applications. The designed modulation-functions-based controller is consisted of the modulation index and phase that are accurately evaluated according to ac-side voltage, MMC voltage and current components in a-b-c reference frame. Two main contributions of the proposed control strategy over the other existing control techniques are robust against the MMC parameter variations and simplicity operation that causes MMC to perform the ac/dc conversion for the HVDC applications. The simulation results verify the ability of the proposed control strategy at approaching to the stable performance of MMC under various operating conditions.
keywords: {Gold;Voltage control;HVDC transmission;Phase modulation;Switches;Capacitors;HVDC Applications;modular multilevel converters (MMCs);the upper and lower's arms modulation functions},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352471&isnumber=8352140

C. N. El-Khoury, H. Y. Kanaan, I. Mougharbel and K. Al-Haddad, "Implementation of a series Z-source very sparse matrix converter in a PMSG-based WECS," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1887-1892.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352473
Abstract: A new bidirectional Z-source Matrix Converter is introduced and designed to be implemented in a Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS) using a direct-drive Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generator (PMSG). It is designed to overcome the main constraints of matrix converters such as their relatively complex modulation techniques, their high number of semiconductor switches and their voltage gain limited to 0.866. It is implemented in a PMSG-based WECS. The control strategy is based on the Rotor-Flux-Orientation Control and the optimal Tip Speed Ratio (TSR) Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) algorithm while the modulation technique is the Space Vector Modulation (SVM). The performances of the overall WECS with the proposed control strategy are examined under wind speed variations. The impact of wind speed intermittency on the frequency responses is evaluated and results show that the Series Z-Source Very Sparse Matrix Converter (SZS-VSMC) is a promising solution for storage-free step-up AC-AC conversion applied in PMSG-based WECSs. The effectiveness of the proposed power converter and its implementation are verified using MATLAB/Simulink simulations performed initially with a RL load and then connected to the grid.
keywords: {Voltage control;Matrix converters;Torque;Sparse matrices;Capacitors;Wind speed;Topology;Wind Energy Conversion System;Z-source Matrix Converter;Very Sparse Matrix Converter;Series Z-source Network;Space Vector Modulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352473&isnumber=8352140

M. Sharifzadeh, H. Vahedi and K. Al-Haddad, "SHM-PWM applied on single DC source CHB with self-regulation of capacitors voltages," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1893-1897.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352474
Abstract: Cascaded H-Bridge (CHB) inverter is conventionally used with separated DC sources. However, the DC sources can be replaced by DC capacitors if the right modulation technique is chosen. In this paper, Selective Harmonic Mitigation (SHM) has been applied on single DC source CHB inverter in order to regulate capacitor voltage inherently and mitigate all harmonic amplitudes below 49th acceptably. The voltage regulation is guaranteed through symmetrical predetermined voltage waveform that SHM equations are defined based on. Some simulation results have been presented to confirm high performance of SHM technique in dealing with harmonic mitigation and acquiring the capacitor voltage balancing in single DC source CHB when it is operated in low switching frequency modulation technique.
keywords: {Inverters;Harmonic analysis;Capacitors;Voltage control;Modulation;Switching frequency;Switches;Single DC Source Cascaded H-Bridge (CHB) Inverter;Selective Harmonic Mitigation;Capacitor Voltage Regulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352474&isnumber=8352140

J. Sarrouh and H. Y. Kanaan, "Virtual-flux estimation and SVM based direct power control of a three-level NPC rectifier," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1898-1905.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352475
Abstract: This paper discusses an existing Direct Power Control algorithms for three-phase three-level with neutral-point clamped (NPC) rectifiers. Direct Power Control, or DPC, implies the creation of the control algorithm in order to directly control both the active and reactive powers consumed by the rectifier, increasing the grid's power factor and reducing its current total harmonic distortion. Throughout this document, we will focus on one control algorithm directly related to DPC, through which we can achieve the rectifier control. The chosen method is the virtual flux based on DPC with space vector modulation. We will develop the mathematical model stemming from this algorithm and its operation under variable load. These tests and implementations will allow us to assert the superiority of virtual flux DPC with space vector modulation algorithm over conventional control techniques, verify the results obtained through the studied literature, and demonstrate the capacity of the algorithm to abide by the requirements and constraints. These tests will valorize, when working with medium to high power loads, the advantages of a multi-level inverter.
keywords: {Mathematical model;Rectifiers;Reactive power;Power control;Estimation;Voltage control;Sensors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352475&isnumber=8352140

"SS advanced power electronics for power quality in distributed power systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1906-1908.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352476
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352476&isnumber=8352140

A. Ammar, H. Y. Kanaan, N. Moubayed, M. Hamouda and K. Al-Haddad, "A simple hybrid PWM algorithm for a five-phase indirect matrix converter topology," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1909-1914.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352477
Abstract: The paper proposes a very simple hybrid modulator whose role is to control the rectifier & inverter stages of a five-phase indirect matrix converter topology. The adopted technique combines between two forms of pulse width modulations PWM and due to this combination, the system advantageously requires very little computation efforts, resulting in high quality waveforms on both source & load extremities. This modulator wins over its previous conventional schemes by ensuring reduction in calculation times along with total preservation of voltage and current act.
keywords: {Matrix converters;Topology;Pulse width modulation;Switches;Rectifiers;Inverters;Matrix converters;Indirect Topology;grid connected converter;unity power factor operation;pulse width modulation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352477&isnumber=8352140

F. Sebaaly, H. Vahedi, H. Y. Kanaan and K. Al-Haddad, "Fixed switching frequency model predictive based controller for sensor-less five-level Packed U-cell (PUC5) single phase inverter," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1915-1919.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352478
Abstract: In this paper, a new control design is developed for the Packed U-Cells (PUC) inverter. A fixed-switching frequency Model Predictive-based (MPC) algorithm is introduced for the sensor-less five-level (PUC5) inverter to regulate the current injected to the utility when it operates in grid connection mode. The proposed method generates the candidate vector that minimizes the well-known Finite Set Model Predictive (FS-MPC) cost function. Besides, the sensor-less voltage control of PUC5 takes in action of stabilizing DC capacitor voltages with no need of additional regulator. Less complexity with no sensors, nor required iterations are obtained. Discrete system model has been introduced and developed. Simulation results on MATLAB/Simulink are provided to confirm the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed algorithm.
keywords: {Inverters;Voltage control;Capacitors;Regulators;Simulation;Prediction algorithms;Switching frequency;Five-level Packed U-Cells (PUC5);sensor-less inverter;predictive controller;cost function optimization;fixed-frequency MPC},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352478&isnumber=8352140

J. Moriano, E. Bueno, M. Moranchel and M. Rizo, "Harmonic voltage compensation by grid supporting controlled distributed generators," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1920-1925.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352479
Abstract: The increment of non-linear loads has supposed a great influence on the grid distortion and unbalance conditions. Meanwhile, the increment in the number of distributed generators has been seen as an opportunity to contribute to the grid support. By controlling harmonic and unbalanced currents through multifrequency control, the voltage at the Point of Common Coupling (PCC) can be corrected even when the grid voltage is polluted. Several multifrequency control algorithms has been proposed for compensating the currents provoked by close non linear loads. In the proposed case here, for the first time, harmonic voltages at the PCC are compensated, regardless of the source of the pollution and by taking into account the voltage and current limitations. Simulated and experimental results for a Neutral Point Clamped (NPC) converter connected to a distorted grid prove the proposed control.
keywords: {Voltage control;Harmonic analysis;Power harmonic filters;Voltage measurement;Frequency control;Resonant frequency;Employment},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352479&isnumber=8352140

M. Trabelsi, H. Komurcugil, S. S. Refaat and H. Abu-Rub, "Model predictive control of packed U cells based transformerless single-phase dynamic voltage restorer," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1926-1931.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352480
Abstract: Power quality has become a matter of great concern for all energy stakeholders, whether they are network operators, suppliers, producers, or end users. One of the main power quality issues affecting sensitive equipment and loads are short-time voltage variations (disturbances) called voltage sags and swells. This paper focuses on the mitigation of these voltage disturbances using a novel packed U cells (PUC) based dynamic voltage restorer (DVR) solution. The proposed DVR is controlled by using a multi-constraint model predictive control (MPC) approach, which regulates the injection of the needed compensation voltage in series and synchronism with the grid during the voltage disturbance events. Moreover, as it is mandatory to ensure stable operation of the PUC inverter, the proposed MPC ensures the control of the PUC output current while maintaining the capacitor voltage at its nominal value. Theoretical analysis and simulation results are given to show the high performance of the proposed solution.
keywords: {Voltage control;Power quality;Capacitors;Inverters;Topology;Switches;Voltage measurement;Packed U Cells Inverter;Dynamic Voltage Restorer;Model Predicitve Control;Voltage Compensation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352480&isnumber=8352140

"SS wireless sensor networks: Hardware/software design aspects for industry," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1932-1934.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352481
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352481&isnumber=8352140

C. Iwendi, Z. Zhang and X. Du, "ACO based key management routing mechanism for WSN security and data collection," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1935-1939.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352482
Abstract: This research presents an improved key management technique (KMT) with an ant colony optimization (ACO) for the path planning of the wireless sensor network nodes. The purpose of the improved KMT with ACO is to design an appropriate route to connect the starting point and ending point of the environment with Intruders. Ant colony algorithm, which is used to deceive the intruders in the path planning initialization can also improve and safeguard the data collection from the base station to the nodes and vice versa. The idea is to allow the non-uniform distribution of KMT with the initial pheromone and the selection strategy with direction playing a very positive role in the path search. This method will deceive the intruders while introducing the actual coverage and updating strategy of pheromone repeatedly in false search and eliminating the effect of the intruders. In addition, the pheromone disappearance coefficient is segmented and adjusted, which can effectively balance the convergence speed and communication of the sensor nodes. Finally, this research provides a theoretical basis for key management technique with an ant colony optimization by strict mathematical derivation, and some numerical evaluations using MATLAB. We intend to complete this research by using Cooja simulator to illustrate the usefulness of the theoretical outcomes.
keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Security;Routing;Mathematical model;Data collection;Base stations;Symmetric matrices;A CO;AES;KMT;Cooja;Mesh;MATLAB;WSN},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352482&isnumber=8352140

J. Spiegel, P. Wira and G. Hermann, "Energy efficiency optimization in fluid flow metering," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1940-1945.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352483
Abstract: Fluid flow metering is an important issue for users for managing their resources and for the new developments of (smart) cities. This paper presents a fluid flow meter with an embedded energy management strategy. On one side an energy harvesting prototype generates energy from the fluid flow by a turbine and from the fluid pressure fluctuations by a piezoelectric generator. On the other side, RF communication time has been reduced by data compression. The duration of the emission is reduced and power can be saved with compressed data. The compromise between the compression ratio and the computational costs has been studied. A complete energy balance has been achieved under different operating conditions and shows that the harvested energy is higher than the energy required for compressing and transmitting the data from a flow rate of approximately one hundred of l/h. This has been verified experimentally in a real water distribution system by a prototype which respects the required metrological constraints.
keywords: {Meters;Prototypes;Energy harvesting;Intelligent sensors;Radio frequency;Generators},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352483&isnumber=8352140

C. Antonopoulos, G. Touliatos, N. Voros and S. Koubias, "Enhanced WSN simulation accuracy through novel hardware in the loop approach," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1946-1951.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352484
Abstract: Recent advancements in ICT technologies foster the wide spread of Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) for a variety of applications. Such interest is accompanied by the development of appropriate tools to boost the performance and applicability of prominent WSN designs. In that context network simulators play a key role in designing, developing and evaluating respective solutions. However, in many cases, simulation environments are notorious for inadequate or low accuracy models, not able to capture the highly complex and dynamic behavior of a WSN environment. Driven by such shortcomings this paper focuses on Hardware in the Loop (HiL) enhancements of prominent WSN simulators able to yield significant reliability benefits. Specifically, the main contribution of this paper is the design, development and evaluation of novel HiL extensions regarding the widely used Castalia WSN simulation framework. Proposed HiL architecture is applied on top of the standard simulation environment facilitating easy integration. Evaluation experiments follow two diverse approaches. On one hand, experimental evaluation focuses on application layer of a node revealing the importance of accurate consideration of time delays caused by embedded hardware and which are ignored by pure simulations. On the other hand, the second approach focuses on the physical layer and the wireless transmission medium. In this context, it is presented that through the proposed HiL approach, most of the deficiencies introduced by simplified models are efficiently tackled.
keywords: {Delays;Hardware;System performance;Physical layer;wireless sensor networks;hardware in the loop;system performance evaluation;network simulation;accurate modeling;software-hardware cooperation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352484&isnumber=8352140

F. N. de Godoi, G. W. Denardin, C. H. Barriquello and R. N. do Prado, "Wireless sensor network quality of service optimization for smart cities," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1952-1957.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352485
Abstract: Due to its wide applicability, wireless sensor network (WSN) has been used to collect data in the field and forward it to a data collector. However, WSN relies on unreliable communication medium that is susceptible to noise and interference, which results in loss of information through the route to the data aggregator. Unlike existing TCP and UDP protocols, a new transport protocol is required to meet the specifications of a wireless sensor network. In order to guarantee the quality of service (QoS) in the communication medium, this work describes a new communication protocol, which aims to guarantee the delivery of packages. Such protocol uses a new transmission acknowledges system, providing higher reliability in peer-to-peer transmissions. With this method, it is shown that even without a network buffer, it is possible to achieve better reliability in harsh environments than others well-known methods. In this way, this protocol guarantees the end-to-end data delivery, using a minimum amount of device memory.
keywords: {Wireless sensor networks;Protocols;Reliability;Receivers;Performance evaluation;Buffer storage;Peer-to-peer computing;WSN;QoS;Buffer;Smart Cities;Smart Grid},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352485&isnumber=8352140

"SS technology design on human factors and real world," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1958-1960.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352486
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352486&isnumber=8352140

S. Kaneki, S. Yokota, D. Chugo and H. Hashimoto, "Development of underacuated hybrid mobile robot composed of rotors and wheel," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1961-1966.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352487
Abstract: The purpose of this research is to develop the combination mobile system composed of coaxial rotors and single driving wheel. A conventional combination mobile system causes increase of the number of actuators, because actuators are never shared by each mobile mechanisms, but are adopted for each mobile mechanism individually. However, the actuators in the proposed mobile system are shared by combined two mechanism. The proposed system minimizes an increase the number of actuators by two methods : First one is dispensing with a steering motor in wheel mechanism and second one is dispensing with a pitch servo motor in rotor mechanism. As the first one, a counter torque generated by rotors changes the orientation of the body, and it becomes substitute of steering function in wheel mechanism. A counter torque, originally, is negative effect disturbing an orientation of a mobile system. However the proposed system actively uses this counter torque to realize steering function as wheel mechanism. By rotating the rotor, the counter torque is applied to the body. And then the orientation of the body is changed. By this manner, it is possible to control the orientation of the body. As the second one, when the robot passes over obstacles, the wheel motor add the initial velocity to the robot, it can be gone forward direction by inertial force. It becomes substitute of pitch control function in rotor mechanism. By this manner, it is possible to control the spatial moving in forward direction. In particular, this paper introduced the prototype, discussed the study on energy efficiency and experimental results of the estimation of horizontal spatial moving.
keywords: {Mobile robots;Wheels;Rotors;Energy consumption;Brushless DC motors},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352487&isnumber=8352140

K. Kawahara and S. Suzuki, "Enhancement of spatial awareness on vehicle driving using transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1967-1972.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352488
Abstract: The spatial awareness on vehicle driving is related to the body schema (BS) that is a postural model of the body by integrating visual information and somatosensory information. Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) can affect human somatosensory and induce the BS modification; hence, the authors developed a system to assist the acquisition of spatial awareness on vehicle driving using TENS. In order to evaluate the TENS assistance system, an experiment to record the minimum distance between the wall and the vehicle was performed while participants drove on the virtual course using a dSPACE-based driving simulator. As a result, in the case of the TENS assistant, 2 of 4 participants drove the vehicle away from the wall while driving the course. Also, there were no participants who increased approach to the road wall by TENS. Therefore, the experimental result illustrated that TENS had a possibility to assist the acquisition of spatial awareness on vehicle driving.
keywords: {Vehicles;Vehicle driving;Robot sensing systems;Roads;Indexes;Service robots;Body schema;Spatial awareness on vehicle driving;Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation;Sense of self-ownership},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352488&isnumber=8352140

M. Pacaux-Lemoine, L. Habib and T. Carlson, "Human-robot cooperation through brain-computer interaction and emulated haptic supports," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1973-1978.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352489
Abstract: The study presented in this paper is in the context of providing a telepresence platform for people with tetraplegia, who may be confined to their room or bed. The eventual aim is to provide these people with a system that allows them to remotely control a robot, which can act as a medium for him/her in their everyday life, e.g. by enabling interactions with friends and relatives who may be located in other rooms or even remote places and exploring different environments. In this paper, we deal with the specific challenge of cooperation between a robot and a human, who is only able to control the device using thoughts alone. The system is therefore composed of a brain computer interface (BC1) and a visual interface to implement an “emulated haptic shared control” of the robot. The aim is to share motion control between the human and the robot according to the difficulty of the situation. The control schema that exploits this “emulated haptic feedback” has been designed and evaluated using human-machine cooperation (HMC) and has been compared with more standard controls. We report on an initial experiment that has been conducted to test the feasibility of the approach. Preliminary results highlight the interest of the approach but also the challenges that remain to be overcome.
keywords: {Process control;Brain-computer interfaces;Task analysis;Haptic interfaces;Robot sensing systems;Man-machine systems;disability;brain-computer interface;human-machine cooperation;adaptive level of automation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352489&isnumber=8352140

H. Kobayashi, "Improvement of the 2D code based localization by using multiple codes," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1979-1984.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352490
Abstract: In this paper, the authors propose a new approach to obtain higher accuracy for their original 2D code - SETTLE code based self-localization. In their previous works, they proposed SETTLE code as a visual localization method and also showed an implementation for the Android OS devices. Then, they conducted an experiment. The result of the experiment shows interesting phenomenon that distance estimation tends to be more accurate than position estimation. In other words, positional estimation points tends to distribute on sphere shape. Considering this fact, the authors have a new concept to improve accuracy by using distances information of multiple codes which are observed simultaneously. They also implemented the improvement algorithm on their smartphone app, and the validity is tested by some experiments.
keywords: {Optimized production technology;Cameras;Estimation;Lenses;Two dimensional displays;Androids;Humanoid robots},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352490&isnumber=8352140

Y. Ho, "Knowledge to design an assistant robotics system for aged people," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1985-1990.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352491
Abstract: In this paper, authors based on data of questionnaire to discuss, according to discussion results to suggest appearance/function to robotics and its support system for aged people. This research uses people's familiar view, and targets to make robotics help/assist people rather than let people feel disturb. The basic data for our research is collected by questionnaire. The questionnaire is constructed by several items that include people's background data and the trend of using electronic equipment. These items help construct different clusters and the robot's image that aged people imaged. In this paper, people's different needs and situations are discussed. Data analysis and data mining are applied. From the research results, aged people's opinions, their ideal robot/robotics' image become clear, furthermore, the possibility appearance/function of robot/robotics and its support system are given sharp. This paper is a self-criticism research to developed robot and robotic system, hoping find a new way on this researching area and developing a better assistant robot for aged people.
keywords: {Aging;Electronic equipment;Sociology;Statistics;Materials requirements planning;Service robots;Robotic;Service providing;Data analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352491&isnumber=8352140

T. Chaloem, S. Yokota, H. Hashimoto and D. Chugo, "Oscillation suppression control for electric wheelchair using human body motion interface," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1991-1996.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352492
Abstract: This research proposes an intuitive interface for an electric wheelchair by using Human Body Motion Interface. In particular, this paper offers oscillation suppression control when the user leans his/her body in forwarding direction. Mainly our proposed wheelchair system is controlled by human body movement. The wheelchair moves to the direction which user leans his/her body. When wheelchair starts running, users' body is pulled back, and then the leaning body angle is changed. As a result, the wheelchair velocity is decreased. Therefore user leans his/her body to increase the velocity of the wheelchair. Thus the body movement becomes to have oscillated. Wheelchair's acceleration causes this body oscillation. To suppress this oscillation, we design the low pass filter to eliminate this body movement. Thus we identified human oscillation model to distinguish the filter parameters. This model expresses the relationship between wheelchair acceleration and upper body movement. By conducting the verification experiment, we can confirm the significant between the none-filtered control system and filtered control system through multiple conditions. Thus, introducing this low pass filter; it is possible to operate the electric wheelchair without influences by unexpected human body oscillation.
keywords: {Wheelchairs;Oscillators;Laser radar;Acceleration;Low pass filters;Control systems;Prototypes;Interface;Body movement;Human characteristics;Intuitive;LIDAR;Wheelchair},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352492&isnumber=8352140

N. Funada and S. Suzuki, "Perceptional assistance using transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and emphasized single-camera view for tele-existence robot user," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 1997-2002.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352493
Abstract: Skill acquisition for remote control machines such as tele-existence robot (TER) is affected by a body schema (BS) modification defined as a postural model of the body in the brain. Based on the BS concept, in this study, a spatial perception support system utilizing both emphasized single-camera view and the transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) was presented as visual and somatosensory stimuli, respectivelyh, which affect the BS modification. Through experiments using the support system with a TER at a office room, operational performance of the operators, involving with the BS modification, was investigated for two conditions. The first condition was given by an emphasized view, that is image-emphasized (IE) and image-no-emphasized (IN). Analysis concerning distance between the TER and obstacles illustrated that the IE condition could increase the minimum distance, which means safety margin. The second condition was given by TENS with the former emphasized view, named TENS-assistance (TA) and TENS-no-assistance (TN). As the result, by applying stimulus considering operator's individual characteristics, it was clear that the TENS and emphasized view stimulus can support to maintain safe margin.
keywords: {Visualization;Cameras;Robots;Distortion;Measurement by laser beam;Electric potential;Real-time systems;Tele-existence robot;Visual stimulus;Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation;Body schema},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352493&isnumber=8352140

"SS human sensing and signal processing for health," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2003-2004.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352494
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352494&isnumber=8352140

M. Nagura, Y. Mitsukura, T. Kishimoto and M. Mimura, "An estimation of heart rate variability from ballistocardiogram measured with bed leg sensors," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2005-2009.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352495
Abstract: Ballistocardiogram (BCG) is the repetitive body movements related to cardiac cycle. All night continuous measuring of BCG by using bed sensors enable us to detect sleep stage. However conventional methods are seemed to have unreliability caused by position of lying down. In this paper, we propose a reliable method of all night continuous measuring of BCG. Heart rate variability (HRV) is estimated from BCG measured with new bed sensors by template-matching approach. This approach has three steps, pre-processing, template-creation and template matching. Output of this process were validated with 4 subjects. The mean beat-to-beat interval error was 9.8[ms] and on an average 87.1% of the beat-to-beat intervals were detected.
keywords: {Heart rate variability;Sensor systems;Sensor phenomena and characterization;Reliability;Correlation;Heart beat;battistocardiogram(BCG);biomedical measurements;cardiac signal analysis},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352495&isnumber=8352140

J. Kagita and Y. Mitsukura, "Quantification of pain degree using EEG with simple device," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2014-2017.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352497
Abstract: The final aim of this paper is to quantify pain degree by only using Electroencephalogram (EEG) measured with simple device. Pain degree dominates the choice and assessment of a treatment in clinical care. It is conventionally quantified using pain rating scales, although they are not capable of attaining objective values. Therefore, a method which can quantify pain degree objectively has great importance. In this paper, the possibility of quantifying pain degree by only using EEG measured with simple device is proposed. The proposed method is in an easy manner considering its time consummation and procedures. Significant difference in EEG features between pain-free, painful, and psychologically painful state were confirmed as the results of the experiment, showing the possibility of attaining objective pain degree by using EEG measured with simple device.
keywords: {Pain;Electroencephalography;Psychology;Atmospheric measurements;Particle measurements;Principal component analysis;Frequency measurement;pain;EEG},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352497&isnumber=8352140

"SS condition monitoring and health assessment of wind turbines," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2018-2020.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352498
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352498&isnumber=8352140

S. H. Kia, H. Henao, G. Capolino and M. H. Marzebali, "A reduced-scale test bench dedicated to electrical and mechanical faults studies in wind turbine generators," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2021-2027.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352499
Abstract: Online condition monitoring is a crucial task for wind turbine generators availability and reliability enhancement and leads to early detection of both electrical and mechanical faults. This reduces the maintenance cost and avoid catastrophic failures. The performance of any condition monitoring system should be evaluated before its implementation in a full-scale system. Therefore, the design of a reduced-scale wind turbine generator including its main subsystem components at an initial stage is important for the assessment of new methods dedicated to the detection of both electrical and mechanical faults. This paper aims to demonstrate some capabilities of a formerly designed test bench based on a wound rotor induction generator in studying the effect of both electrical and mechanical faults on its electrical signatures. This system includes all required instrumentation in addition to a real-time platform for the development of any sophisticated condition monitoring strategy devoted to the online condition monitoring of wind turbines. A reduced-scale system based on a 5.5kW wound rotor induction machine is used for the validation of the proposed approach.
keywords: {Rotors;Condition monitoring;Generators;Stator windings;Torque;Wind turbines;Condition monitoring;Fault detection;Gears;Instrumentation;Real-time systems;Wind turbines;Wound rotor induction generator},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352499&isnumber=8352140

S. H. Kia, H. Henao, G. Capolino and M. H. Marzebali, "Contribution to wind turbine emulation based on wound rotor induction machine configuration," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2028-2034.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352500
Abstract: This paper deals with a technique for emulation of wind turbine systems which are based on wound rotor induction machine technology using a reduced-scale test bench. The development of new control algorithms and fault diagnosis techniques is the main aim of this emulation with which the efficacy of these novel strategies can be evaluated in working conditions similar to those of full-scale wind turbines. The reduced-scale test bench has been designed according to the main components of a full-scale wind turbine system namely the main bearing, the main shaft, the planetary gearbox and the wound rotor induction machine. A rotor side converter is involved to manage both active and reactive power exchange with the power grid. Moreover, an external real-time data acquisition platform is utilized for data collection from different elements of the test bench. This has been realized using different kinds of measurement which are the outcome of accelerometer, torque, current and voltage sensors that will be used for studying the efficacy of various approaches of wind turbines' condition monitoring. The parameters of a full-scale 600kW wind turbine have been used and adapted to a reduced-scale test bench setup based on a 5.5kW wound rotor induction machine for the validation of the proposed method.
keywords: {Rotors;Stators;Blades;Wind turbines;Reactive power;Sensors;Bandwidth;Condition monitoring;Fault detection;Gears;Instrumentation;Real-time systems;Wind turbines;Wound rotor induction generator},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352500&isnumber=8352140

E. Jantunen, J. Hooghoudt, Y. Yang and M. McKay, "Predicting the remaining useful life of rolling element bearings," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2035-2040.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352501
Abstract: Condition monitoring of rolling element bearings is of vital importance in order to keep the industrial wheels running. In wind industry this is especially important due to the challenges in practical maintenance. The paper presents an attempt to improve the capability of prediction of remaining useful life of rolling bearings. The approach is based on the understanding of the wear of bearings i.e. wear modelling is briefly discussed. A simulation model has been built to produce vibration data of the monitoring of rolling bearings taking into account typical vibration excitations in addition to the wear. The simulation model is used to develop signal analysis methods and means of prognosis of the remaining useful life. One complete example of the above described process is shown and discussed in the paper.
keywords: {Vibrations;Hidden Markov models;Degradation;Analytical models;Prognostics and health management;Predictive models;Surface treatment;rolling element bearing;condition monitoring;vibration measurements;signal analysis;diagnosis;prognosis;remaining useful life},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352501&isnumber=8352140

"SS tools for energy storage systems control for e-mobility," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2041-2042.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352502
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352502&isnumber=8352140

A. Macias, M. Kandidayeni, L. Boulon and H. Chaoui, "A novel online energy management strategy for multi fuel cell systems," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2043-2048.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352503
Abstract: This paper addresses the design of an energy management strategy (EMS) for a multi-stack fuel cell system (MFCS). In this regard, firstly, two power allocation strategies, namely Daisy Chain and Equal Distribution have been developed and compared in characteristics terms. Subsequently, a novel adaptive strategy is proposed to split the power between the fuel cells and the battery by utilizing the demanded power, state of charge (SOC) of the battery, maximum power and efficiency point of each fuel cell. In a MFCS, each fuel cell shows variable performances in different operating conditions depending on its specific ageing, material, and external factors. The purpose of this study is to ensure an equal level of degradation for each fuel cell and to make them operate in an efficient zone, with the assistance of an online identification method as well as an adaptive power strategy. Simulations have been conducted in Matlab-Simulink environment. In this work, a mechanistic fuel cell model is employed to imitate the behaviour of a real MFCS and a semi-empirical model, coupled with an adaptive recursive least square (ARLS) to predict the maximum power (MP) and maximum efficiency (ME). The results of the proposed strategy show noticeable improvements in the fuel economy.
keywords: {Fuel cells;Mathematical model;Energy management;Adaptation models;Hydrogen;Batteries;State of charge;PEM fuel cell;multi-stack;energy management strategy;model identification},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352503&isnumber=8352140

R. German, P. Delarue and A. Bouscayrol, "Battery pack self-heating during the charging process," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2049-2054.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352504
Abstract: Charging a battery packs is a critical point for electric vehicles (EVs). The customer is seeking for fast charging. However, the current level has a negative impact on the battery pack lifetime. This paper aims to study through simulation results the self-heating of a battery pack used in an EV as a function of the charging current. Energetic Macroscopic Representation (EMR) is used to organize the control of current and voltage of battery pack while coupling electrical and thermal domains. The study shows that the self-heating of an EV pack can be sizeable even under the EV manufacturer charging current limits. This is why EV manufacturers are advising customers to reduce the occurrence of fast charges.
keywords: {Batteries;Resistance;Couplings;Capacitance;Entropy;Cooling;Mathematical model;Li-ion Batteries;Cells;Charging;Control;Systems;Energetic macroscopic representation},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352504&isnumber=8352140

Y. C. Zhang, O. Briat, J. -Y. Deletage, C. Martin, G. Gager and J. -M. Vinassa, "Characterization of external pressure effects on lithium-ion pouch cell," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2055-2059.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352505
Abstract: Lithium-ion battery is nowadays used for vehicle and stationary application due to several advantages. Among all the available formats for lithium-ion batteries, pouch format is one of the preferred choices for automotive manufactory thanks to packaging efficiency. Many studies focused on the effect of electric and thermal parameters for lithium-ion battery performance, as the state of charge (SOC), the discharge/charge rate, the operation temperature and self-heating. However, swelling is sometimes observed in pouch packs for automotive application. The mechanical parameter must be considered for pouch format. This paper attempts to show how external pressure influences the performance of lithium-ion pouch battery according to static and dynamic external pressures, mainly used electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and power cycle techniques. The results of our investigations show that static pressure has a little impact on impedance of lithium-ion pouch battery, dynamic pressure generates during discharging/charging which looks like “cell breathing”. Moreover, this pressure links to current amplitude. It would be interesting to use a dynamic pressure indicator to monitor the electric characterizations of lithium-ion pouch cells in future applications.
keywords: {Vehicle dynamics;Lithium-ion batteries;Temperature measurement;Particle separators;Electrodes;Lithium;Lithium-ion pouch cell;external static pressure;dynamic pressure generation;impdedance;breathing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352505&isnumber=8352140

M. Ben-Marzouk, G. Clerc, S. Pelissier, A. Sari and P. Venet, "Determination of the electric vehicles driving modes in real life conditions by classification methods," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2060-2065.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352506
Abstract: In order to study the aging of batteries in automotive applications, it is important to understand how and under what conditions these batteries are operating in electric vehicles (EVs). However, because of the specificities of EVs, these uses may be very different from those known from internal combustion engine cars (ICE). In this paper, we present how, from real-life data, we determine the different driving modes of electric vehicles. The paper presents the different techniques adopted to analyze and classify the data and the different EV running modes, which are obtained.
keywords: {Batteries;Principal component analysis;Electric vehicles;Correlation;Laplace equations;Aging;Acceleration;Electric vehicle;life-size experimentation;driving modes;modes of use;classification;batteries},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352506&isnumber=8352140

B. Nguyễn, R. German, J. P. Trovão and A. Bouscayrol, "Merging control of a hybrid energy storage system using battery/supercapacitor for electric vehicle application," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2066-2071.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352507
Abstract: Hybrid energy storage systems (H-ESSs), as hybridizations of batteries and supercapacitors (SCs), need to be handled by appropriate energy management systems (EMSs). Smoothness of battery current to reduce their degradation are normally the aim of the EMSs. The evolutions of SC voltage however also need to be addressed. Various approaches for handling SC voltage while managing battery current can be found in the literature. Most of the time, their limitations are achieved directly or indirectly in the EMS. This paper aims to develop a merging control scheme to include the SC control outside the EMS. This control scheme based on the inversion principle of the Energetic Macroscopic Representation is proposed for a battery/SC subsystem. Two control schemes are thus systematically deduced and then merged. The battery current reference is generated regarding their aging behavior. Meanwhile, the SC voltage reference is deduced concerning the required SCs stored energy as a function of the vehicle velocity. The proposed approach is validated by simulation in Matlab/Simulink®.
keywords: {Batteries;Voltage control;Merging;Choppers (circuits);Energy management;Inductors;Control scheme;battery;supercapacitor;hybrid energy storage systems;electric vehicles},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352507&isnumber=8352140

R. Abdelhedi, A. Lahyani, A. C. Ammari, A. Sari and P. Venet, "Reinforcement learning-based power sharing between batteries and supercapacitors in electric vehicles," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2072-2077.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352508
Abstract: Energy management of Battery/Supercapacitors (SCs) hybrid energy storage system (HESS) aims to reduce RMS battery current values and enhance the battery lifetime. This paper presents a reinforcement learning (RL) based energy management strategy for Electric Vehicles (EV). This approach allows for learning in real time the optimal power flow distribution between battery and supercapacitors starting from historic of the observation of RMS current of battery. The power management problem is presented with RL formulation verifying the electrical HESS constraints. The presented framework uses the RL technique to control the power flow distribution leading to the minimization of the RMS battery current. Particularly, we propose a methodology that generates optimal frequency sharing policy between battery and SCs taking into account the load variations of the EV dynamically in real time. Numerical simulations carried out on Matlab/Simulink confirmed the convergence of the RMS battery current to the optimal value without any prior knowledge of the driving conditions. The proposed framework aims to adapt automatically the power management policy to the optimal solution.
keywords: {Batteries;Energy management;Supercapacitors;Real-time systems;Load flow;Cost function;Battery;Supercapacitors;Power sharing;Reinforcement learning;Electric Vehicle},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352508&isnumber=8352140

"SS new challenges on electromechanical systems monitoring based on artificial intelligence," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2078-2080.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352509
Abstract: Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352509&isnumber=8352140

H. S. Choi, J. B. Cho, S. G. Kim and H. S. Choi, "A real-time smart fruit quality grading system classifying by external appearance and internal flavor factors," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2081-2086.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352510
Abstract: The fruit grading by visual inspection suffers from the problem of inconsistency in judgment by different persons. There is a need for an automatic fruit classification machine replacing the expensive human labor with a smart fruit quality classification system. This study proposed a practical real-time smart fruits quality grading system classifying by appearance and internal flavor factors in order to decrease human labor cost in fruit industry. The proposed system applies color image processing techniques for the computation of the fruits appearance features and the near-infrared spectroscopy analysis methods for the estimation of internal flavor factors. This study also suggests an artificial neural network model in order to be able to classify fruit grading. The proposed ANN model is trained and tested with 1,900 numbers of pears for grading. It has achieved the classification accuracy rate of 97.4% in our experiment.
keywords: {Entropy;Real-time systems;Spectroscopy;Moisture;Color;Artificial neural networks;Vibrations;fruit quality grading system;image processing;near-infrared spectroscopy;artificial neural network},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352510&isnumber=8352140

S. Zhang, C. Iwendi and S. Guo, "Analysis of frequency characteristic of surface permanent magnet synchronous machine," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2087-2092.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352511
Abstract: The surface permanent magnet synchronous machines have been widely used in direct-drive wind power generation system. The transient reactance and time constants are important parameters to describe electric transient process, and determine the safe operation and stability of the system. First, an analytical method is presented to predict the direct-and quadrature-axis operational inductances originating from asynchronous test method. The finite element results validate the analytical prediction. Next, the physical nature of the transient process is concluded according to the mechanisms of eddy current field. Finally, based on the frequency characteristic of operational inductance, the subtransient inductance and time constants of the surface permanent magnet machine can be obtained by curve fitting.
keywords: {Inductance;Transient analysis;Rotors;Stator windings;Mathematical model;surface permanent magnet synchronous machine;transient parameters;analytical model;frequency characteristic},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352511&isnumber=8352140

A. Picot, J. Rivière and P. Maussion, "Bearing fault diagnosis based on the analysis of recursive PCA projections," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2093-2098.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352512
Abstract: This paper presents an automated classification scheme for bearing fault detection in permanent magnet synchronous machines. This original method is based on the use of principal components analysis which is recursively updated every time a new class is detected. The main advantage of the proposed method is that only data in healthy condition are needed to train the algorithm. These healthy data are used as a reference to normalize the different features. The new classes are defined from their distance to the healthy class. This method was tested on a 5 kVA machine for 4 different speeds. It obtains very good results with an overall 88.7 % correct classifications rate. The analysis of the components obtained shows that the features that contribute the most are coherent with the literature of bearing fault detection. Moreover, the results have proven to be reproducible whatever the speed.
keywords: {Principal component analysis;Feature extraction;Vibrations;Fault detection;Sensors;Harmonic analysis;Protocols;Bearing fault diagnosis;Principal Component Analysis;Synchronous Machine;Current-based diagnosis;Novelty detection},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352512&isnumber=8352140

J. Cirera, M. Quiles, J. A. Carino, D. Zurita and J. A. Ortega, "Data-driven operation performance evaluation of multi-chiller system using self-organizing maps," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2099-2104.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352513
Abstract: Industrial plants performance evaluation has become a difficult task due to the machinery complexity. Multi-chiller systems take up big proportion of energy in food and beverage companies. Complex refrigeration generation is usually hard to evaluate as the affectation of external signals plays an important role and also exist too many control features for the facility operator. Develop a method able to detect any deviation respect the optimal operation can provide the necessary information for the purpose of inefficiencies identification and a further optimization. In this paper, data-driven methods are used in order to describe a reliable coefficient of performance indicator (COP) in several known plant conditions. Self-organizing maps (SOM) are used to recognize different operating points among the multi-variable feature space for later performance evaluation. By the analysis of COP in each operating point, the potential energy saving can be illustrated. An experimental study is performed with refrigeration plant indicating the suitability of the proposed method.
keywords: {Self-organizing feature maps;Power measurement;Q measurement;Pressure measurement;Temperature measurement;Principal component analysis;Artificial intelligence;Condition monitoring;Machine learning;Multidimensional systems;Neural networks;Self-organizing feature maps;Unsupervised learning},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352513&isnumber=8352140

A. Soualhi and S. Taleb, "Data fusion for fault severity estimation of ball bearings," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2105-2110.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352514
Abstract: Rotating machines, such as asynchronous and synchronous motors, are considered as vital electromechanical systems in the industrial sector because of their low cost and robustness. However, 40% of their failures are due to bearing faults. In order to avoid these failures, monitoring methods need to be developed to ensure the reliability and safety of these machines. The presented paper proposes the use of temporal and frequency analysis to extract degradation indicators. These indicators will be injected into an artificial intelligence system coupled with the fuzzy logic to estimate the fault size of bearings. The system is ANFIS (Adaptive Neuro Fuzzy Inference System) and is used to estimate the fault size of bearings. Vibration signals provided by the Case Western Reserve University laboratory were used to validate the proposed method. The obtained results show the efficiency of the data fusion for estimating the fault size of ball bearings.
keywords: {DH-HEMTs;Signal processing;artificial neural network;fault detection;diagnosis;bearing},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352514&isnumber=8352140

F. Arellano-Espitia, J. J. Saucedo-Dorantes, R. A. Osornio-Rios, M. Delgado-Prieto, J. A. Cariño-Corrales and R. J. Romero-Troncoso, "Statistical data fusion as diagnosis scheme applied to a kinematic chain," 2018 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT), Lyon, France, 2018, pp. 2111-2118.
doi: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.8352515
Abstract: In the modern industry framework, the application of condition monitoring schemes over electromechanical systems is being subjected to demanding requirements. Industrial electrical machinery implies the consideration of an electric motor, but also, gearboxes, shafts and couplings among others, resulting in complex kinematic chains. Such electromechanical configurations increase the risk of multiple faults coexistence and overlapping of corresponding effects in the considered physical magnitudes. Currently, the massive digitalization of industrial assets allows the investigation towards multiple monitoring strategies capable of emphasize deviations over the nominal system operation from different domains. In this regard, the proposed study presents the analysis of the diagnosis capabilities resulting from a high-dimensional statistical time-domain data fusion approach. First, multiple statistical time features are estimated from the available physical magnitudes, in this case, stator currents and vibrations. Second, two linear feature reduction techniques, such as principal components and linear discriminant analysis, are applied and compared. Third, a neural network based hierarchical structure is implemented for pattern recognition. The performance of the diagnosis scheme is compared with classical characteristic fault frequencies procedures. The study of the considered methodology is carried out over a kinematic chain driven by an induction motor under two fault scenarios, broken rotor bar and load unbalance.
keywords: {Data integration;Kinematics;Monitoring;Estimation;Induction motors;Linear discriminant analysis;Neural networks;condition monitoring;feature estimation;feature reduction;induction motor;linear discriminant analysis;multiple faults;neural networks;principal component analysis;stator currents;vibrations},
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8352515&isnumber=8352140
